C:\Users\Fabien Sanglard\Documents\Visual Studio 2008\Projects\CrackKevin\Debug>CrackKevin.exe
Chapter  2: wbth lal voe htat oy voe wxbirtn vfzbqt wagye C poh aeovsn vojgav ?
            what was the name of the central office where i was almost caught ?
Chapter  4: Flle ujw esc wexp mo xsp kjr hsm hiwwcm, "Wplpll stq lec qma e wzerg mzkk!" ?
            what was the name of the man who yelled, "search his car for a logic bomb!" ?
Chapter  6: Kyoo olxi rzr Niyovo Cohjpcx ojy dn T apopsy ?
            what game did sandra lambert ask if i played ?
Chapter  8: Iwh xwqv wpvpj fwr Vfvyj qks wf nzc ncgsoo esg psd gwc ntoqujvr ejs rypz nzfs ?
            how much money did lenny owe me for losing the bet for cracking the door code ?
Chapter 10: Bprf cup esanqneu xmm gtknv amme U biiwy krxheu Iwqt Taied ?
            what guy answered the phone when i first called eric heinz ?
Chapter 12: Yhlt xak tzg iytfrfad RanBfld squtpm uhst uquwd ce mswf tz wjrwtsr a wioe lhsv Ecid mwnlkoyee bmt oquwdo't ledn mp acomt ?
            what was the internal pacbell system that could be used to wiretap a line that eric mentioned but wouldn't tell me about ?
Chapter 14: Plpki ytw eai rtc aaspx M llogw qj wef ms rh xq ?
            where was the pay phone i asked my dad to go to ?
Chapter 16: Kwth qzrva rbq lcq rxw Svtg vxcz zm vzs lbfieerl nsem rmh dg ac oef'l cwamu ?
            what month and day did eric tell me the wiretaps were put on my dad's lines ?
Chapter 18: Khkp wg wve kyfcqmm yb hvh TBS oeidr trwh Yhb MmCiwus Wko ogvwgxar hr ?
            what is the acronym of the fbi squad that ken mcguire was assigned to ?
Chapter 18: Wspa wdw gae ypte rj gae dilan lbnsp loeui V tndllrhh gae awvnh "HZO, hzl jaq M uxla nvu"
            what was the name of the steak house where i answered the phone "dmv, how can i help you"
Chapter 22: Gsig cof dsm fkqeoe vnss jo farj tbb epr Csyvd Nnxub mzlr ut grp lne ?
            what was the secret name we used for the wells fargo code of the day ?
Chapter 24: Xvof jq qis bmns lg hvq thlss ktffb J cifsok EAJ uojbthwsbhlsg ?
            what ic the name of the store where i outran dmv investigators ?
Chapter 26: Aslx jst rlxi bx ns wgzzcmgw UP jnsh hlrjf nyk TT seq s cojorpdw pssx gxmyeie ao bzy glc ?
            wftw pbn name of my favorite tv show where the pi had a business card printer in his car ?
Chapter 28: Phtm zvvvkci sw mhx Fmtvr VOX Ycmrt Emki vqimgv vowx hzh L cgf Ecbst ysi ?
            what version of the micro tac ultra lite source code did i ask alisa for ?
Chapter 30: Ouop lqeg gs zkds ulv V deds zq lus DS urqstsn't wwiaps ?
            what kind of lock did i pick in the hr manager's office ?
Chapter 32: Caem alw Ymek Xptq'd tnwlchvw xz lrv lkkzxv ?
            what was lile elam's password to her server ?
Chapter 34: Nvbx nte hyv bqgs pj gaabv jmjmwdi whd hyv UVT'g Giuxdoc Gctcwd Hvyqbuvz hycoij ?
            what was the type of phone service for the mdc's federal public defender phones ?
Chapter 36: Lsar JSA cryoi ergiu lq wipz tnrs dq dccfunaqi zf oj wqpctkiel dpzpgp I jstcgo cu dy hgq ?
            what fbi agent tried to look into my briefcase in my cpartment before i locked it on him ?