76-8 * IN US $4.50 (iN CANADA ieee 
AS 


The liom of 
the Opera 
by Gasion Leroux 


A New Translation by Lowell Bair 


Gasion Leroux 


French joumalist and writer of suspense fiction Gaston 
Leroux was born in Paris in 1868. His experiences as a 
crime reporter and war correspondent for a French 
newspaper gave him the background to create his 
popular novels. He was one of the originators of the 
detective story, and his young fictional detective, Joseph 
Rouletabile, was the forerunner of many reporter- 
detective characters in modern fiction. Two of Leroux’s 
best-known mysteries are The Perfume of the Lady in 
Black and The Mystery of the Yellow Room, which 
is considered one of the finest “locked room” mysteries 
ever written. A second series of suspense adventures 
featured an old rascal named Cheri-Bibi. But Leroux’s 
most enduring work is, of course, The Phantom of the 
Opera, which was first published in 1941. Leroux died 
in Nice, France, in 1927. 


‘AM CLASSIC-A BANTAM CLASSIC-A BANTAM CLASSIC-A BANTAM CLASSIC:A BANTAM CLASSIC-A BAN] 


Bantam Classics 
Ask your bookseller for these other World Classics 


THE BHAGAVAD-GITA (translated by Barbara Stoler Miller) 


CHEKHOV: FIVE MAJOR PLAYS, Anton Chekhov 
A DOCTOR'S VISIT: SHORT STORIES by Anton Chekhov 


THE INFERNO, Dante (translated by Allen Mandelbaum) 
PURGATORIO, Dante {translated by Allen Mandelbaum) 
PARADISO, Dante (translated by Allen Mandelbaum) 


THE BROTHERS KARAMAZOV, Fyodor Dostoevsky 
CRIME AND PUNISHMENT, Fyodor Dostoevsky 

THE IDIOT, Fyodor Dostoevsky 

NOTES FROM UNDERGROUND, Fyodor Dostoevsky 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO, Alexandre Dumas 
THE THREE MUSKETEERS, Alexandre Dumas 


MADAME BOVARY, Gustave Flaubert 
FAUST, Johann Wolfgang von Goethe 


THE COMPLETE FAIRY TALES OF THE BROTHERS GRIMM 
(translated by Jack Zipes) 


THE HUNCHBACK OF NOTRE DAME, Victor Hugo 

FOUR GREAT PLAYS, Henrik Ibsen 

THE METAMORPHOSIS, Franz Kafka 

LES LIAISONS DANGEREUSES, Pierre Choderlos de Laclos 
THE PRINCE, Niccolo Machiavelli 

CYRANO DE BERGERAC, Edmond Rostand 

THE RED AND THE BLACK, Marie-Henri Beyle de Stendhal 


ANNA KARENINA, Leo Tolstoy 
THE DEATH OF IVAN ILYICH, Leo Tolstoy 


FATHERS AND SONS, Ivan Turgenev 


AROUND THE WORLD IN EIGHTY DAYS, Jules Verne 
20,000 LEAGUES UNDER THE SEA, Jules Verne 


CANDIDE, Voltaire 
DEATH IN VENICE, Thomas Mann (translated by David Luke) 


© 


iSIc-A BANTAM CLASSIC-A BANTAM CLASSIC-A BANTAM CLASSIC-A BANTAM CLASSIC-A BANTAM CLA 


Translated by Lowell Bair 


a 
> 


jv 
BANTAM BOOKS 
NEW YORK * TORONTO * LONDON * SYDNEY * AUCKLAND 


THE PHANTOM OF THE OPERA 
A Bantam Book 


PRINTING HISTORY 
Le Fantome de |I’Opera was first published in Paris in 19140 


Bantam Classic edition / February 1990 


All rights reserved. 
Translation copyright © 1990 by Lowell Bair. 
Cover art copyright © 1990 by James Tennison. 

No part of this book may be reproduced or transmitted 
in any form or by any means, electronic or mechanical, 
including photocopying, recording, or by any information 
storage and retrieval system, without permission in 
writing from the publisher. 

For information address: Bantam Books. 


ISBN 0-553-21376-8 
Published simultaneously in the United States and Canada 


Bantam Books are published by Bantam Books, a division of Bantam 
Doubleday Dell Publishing Group, Inc. ifs trademark, consisting of the 
words “Bantom Books” and the portrayal of a rooster, is Registered in US. 
Patent and Trademork Office and in other countries. Marca Registrado. 


Bantam Books, 666 Fifth Avenue, New York, New York 10103. 


PRINTED IN THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
OPM 14 13 12 14 109 87 6 5 4 


Contents 


Foreword, In Which the Author of This Singular Work Tells 
the Reader How He Was Led to Become Certain that the 
Opera Ghost Really Existed 1 


i Was It the Ghost? 6 
2 The New Marguerite 16 


3 In Which, for the First Time, Debienne and Poligny 
Secretly Give the New Managers of the Opera, Armand 
Moncharmin and Firmin Richard, the Real and Mysterious 
Reason for Their Departure from the National Academy 
of Music 27 


4 Box Five 34 

5 Continuation of ‘‘Box Five’? 42 
6 The Enchanted Violin 49 

7 A Visit to Box Five 67 


8 In Which Firmin Richard and Armand Moncharmin Dare 
to Have Faust Performed in a ‘“Cursed’’ Opera House, 
and We See the Frightful Consequences 70 


9 The Mysterious Brougham 86 
10 At the Masked Ball 95 
11 You Must Forget the Name of ‘‘the Man’s Voice’ 106 
12 Above the Trapdoors 111 
13 Apollo’s Lyre 120 
i4 A Masterstroke by the Lover of Trapdoors 143 
15 The Singular Behavior of a Safety Pin 154 
16 ‘‘Christine! Christine!’’ 160 


17 Astonishing Revelations by Madame Giry, Concerning Her 
Personal Relations with the Opera Ghost 164 


18 Continuation of ‘‘The Singular Behavior of a Safety 
Pin’? 175 


19 The Policeman, the Viscount, and the Persian 181 
20 The Viscount and the Persian 187 
21 In the Cellars of the Opera 194 


22 Interesting and Instructive Tribulations of a Persian 
in the Cellars of the Opera 210 


23 In the Torture Chamber 225 

24 The Tortures Begin 232 

25 ‘Barrels! Barrels! Any Barrels to Sell?’’ 238 
26 The Scorpion or the Grasshopper? 248 

27 End of the Ghost’s Love Story 257 

Epilogue 266 


The Phantom of 
the Opera 


3 


FOREWORD 
In Which the Author of This 
Singular Work Tells the 
Reader How He Was Led to 


Become Certain that the 
Opera Ghost Really Existed 


THE GHOST IN the Paris Opera existed. He was not, as was long 
believed, a delusion of the singers, a superstition of the manag- 
ers, or a ludicrous fantasy concocted by the overheated brains of 
the dancers in the corps de ballet, their mothers, the ushers, the 
cloakroom attendants, and the concierge. 

Yes, he existed in flesh and blood, even though he gave 
himself every appearance of a real ghost, a true phantom. 

When I first began going through the archives of the National 
Academy of Music, I was struck by the astonishing correlations 
between the phenomena attributed to the ghost and the mysteri- 
ous, fantastic tragedy that occurred at the same time, and I was 
soon led to the idea that the tragedy could perhaps be rationally 
explained by the phenomena. 

The events in question go back only thirty years, and in the 
dancers’ lounge at the Opera it would still not be hard to find 
respectable old people of unquestionable honesty who remember, 
as if it were only yesterday, the mysterious and tragic circum- 


1 


2 Gaston Leroux 


stances surrounding the abduction of Christine Daae, the disap- 
pearance of Viscount Raoul de Chagny, and the death of his 
older brother, Count Philippe, whose body was found on the 
shore of the lake that lies beneath the Opera in the direction of 
the Rue Scribe. But none of those witnesses ever thought that the 
more or less legendary Opera ghost was involved in that terrible 
calamity. 

I was slow to realize the truth because my mind was troubled 
by an investigation that kept coming up against seemingly un- 
earthly events. More than once I was on the verge of giving up 
an endeavor in which I exhausted myself pursuing a vain image 
without ever’ grasping it. Finally I had proof that my intuition 
had not deceived me, and all my efforts were rewarded on the 
day when I became certain that the Opera ghost had been more 
than an apparition. | 

On that day, I had spent long hours poring over Memoirs of a 
Manager, a lightweight book by the overly skeptical Armand 
Moncharmin, who, during his time at the Opera, understood 
nothing about the ghost’s bewildering actions; he was vigorously 
making fun of them at the very time when he became the first 
victim of the curious financial operation that took place inside 
the “‘magic envelope.’’ 

Feeling disheartened, I had just left the library when I met the 
charming administrator of our National Academy. He was on the 
landing, talking with a lively, elegantly dressed little old man to 
whom he cheerfully introduced me. The administrator was aware 
of my research and knew how impatiently I had tried, in vain, to 
discover the whereabouts of Monsieur Faure, the examining 
magistrate in the famous Chagny case. No one had known what 
had become of him, or even if he was dead or alive; now he was 
just back from Canada, where he had spent fifteen years, and the 
first thing he had done in Paris was to come to the secretariat of 
the Opera to get a complimentary ticket. That little old man was 
Monsieur Faure himself. 

We spent a good part of the evening together and he told me 
all about the Chagny case as he had understood it. He had had to 
conclude, for lack of evidence, that the viscount was insane and 
that his older brother’s death was accidental, but he remained 
convinced that a terrible tragedy had taken place between the two 
brothers with regard to Christine Daae. He was unable to tell me 
what had become of her or the viscount. And of course he only 


THE PHANTOM OF THE OPERA 3 


laughed when I mentioned the ghost. He too had been told about 
the singular happenings which seemed to indicate that some sort 
of supernatural being had taken up residence in one of the most 
obscure parts of the Opera, and he knew the story of the ‘‘magic 
envelope,’’ but in all this, he felt, there was nothing that re- 
quired the attention of a magistrate investigating the Chagny 
case. All he had done about it was to listen for a few moments to 
the testimony of a witness who had come forward of his own 
accord to say that he had met the ghost. This witness was none 
other than the man called the Persian in fashionable Paris soci- 
ety. He was well-known to all of the Opera’s subscribers. The 
magistrate decided he was a lunatic. 

As you can well imagine, I was prodigiously interested in 
what Monsieur Faure said about the Persian. I wanted to find 
that precious original witness, if it was not yet too late. My good 
luck prevailed and I discovered him in the little apartment on the 
Rue de Rivoli where he still lived, and where he died five 
months after my visit. 

At first I was skeptical, but I could no longer have any doubts 
when the Persian told me, with childlike candor, everything he 
personally knew about the ghost, and when he gave me full 
possession of proofs of his existence, as well as Christine Daae’s 
strange correspondence, which cast a glaringly bright light on his 
appalling destiny. No, the ghost was not a myth! 

I was told, of course, that some of that correspondence 
might not be genuine and that all of it might have been fab- 
ricated by a man whose imagination had surely been nourished 
by enchanting tales, but fortunately I was able to find samples 
of Christine’s handwriting outside of the famous packet of 
letters; I then made a comparative study that removed all 
uncertainty. 

I also found out as much as I could about the Persian and 
concluded that he was an honest man incapable of contriving a 
machination that might mislead justice. 

And this was also the opinion of the family friends, all promi- 
nent people, who were directly or indirectly involved in the 
Chagny affair. I showed them all my documents and explained 
all my deductions to them. They gave me generous encourage- 
ment. In this connection, I will take the liberty of quoting what 
General D. wrote to me: 


4 Gaston Leroux 


Dear Sir, 

I cannot urge you too strongly to make public the results 
of your investigation. I clearly remember that several weeks 
before the disappearance of the great singer Christine Daae 
and the tragedy that saddened everyone in the Faubourg 
Saint-Germain, there was a great deal of talk in the dancers’ 
lounge about the ‘‘ghost,’’ and I believe that the talk con- 
tinued until everyone’s mind became occupied with the trag- 
edy I have mentioned. But if it is possible, as I believe it 
is, after having heard you, to explain the tragedy by means 
of the ghost, I hope you will tell us more about the ghost. 
However mysterious he may seem at first, he will always be 
more explainable than that dark affair in which spiteful peo- 
ple tried to create deadly enmity between two brothers who 
had loved each other all their lives. 

I remain, etc. 


Finally, with my evidence in hand, I went all over the ghost’s 
vast domain, the majestic building that he had turned into his 
empire, and the Persian’s documents were corroborated by ev- 
erything my eyes saw and my mind perceived: Then a marvelous 
discovery decisively completed my work. 

It will be recalled that recently, when workmen were digging 
in the basement of the Opera to bury phonographic recordings of 
singers’ voices, they uncovered a skeleton. As soon as I saw it, I 
had proof that it was the skeleton of the Opera ghost! I had the 
administrator of the Opera touch that proof with his own hand, 
and now it does not matter to me that the newspapers say the 
skeleton belonged to a victim of the Commune. 

The poor people who were slaughtered in the cellars of the 
Opera at the time of the Commune are not buried on that side; I 
will later tell where their skeletons can be found, far away from 
the immense crypt where all sorts of provisions were stored 
during the siege. I came upon them when I was searching for the 
remains of the Opera ghost, which I would not have found if it 
had not been for the highly unlikely circumstance of living 
voices being buried. 

But I will come back to that skeleton and the question of what 
should be done with it. I must now end this very necessary 
foreword by thanking those who modestly played secondary 
roles in the drama but were of great help to me, such as Police 


THE PHANTOM OF THE OPERA 5 


Commissary Mifroid, who made the preliminary investigation 
after Christine Daae’s disappearance; Monsieur Rémy, the for- 
mer secretary; Monsieur Mercier, the former administrator; Mon- 
sieur Gabriel, the former chorus master; and particularly Baroness 
de Castelot-Barbezac, who was once “‘littlke Meg’’ (and is not 
ashamed of it), the brightest star in our admirable corps de ballet 
and the older daughter of the honorable Madame Giry, now 
deceased, who was the usher of the ghost’s box. Because of 
them, the reader and I will now be able to relive those hours of 
terror and pure love in all their details.* 


*] would be an ingrate if, at the outset of this true and frightful story, I did 
not also thank the present management of the Opera, who so graciously 
cooperated with me in all my investigations, and in particular Monsieur 
Messager; also the very kind administrator, Monsieur Gabion, and the very 
obliging architect in charge of the building’s preservation, who did not 
hesitate to lend me the works of Charles Garnier even though he was nearly 
certain that I would not give them back. Finally, I wish to publicly acknowl- 
edge the generosity of my friend and former collaborator J.-L. Croze, who 
allowed me to draw on the resources of his splendid theatrical library and lent 
me rare editions that he valued very highly. G.L. 


1 


Was It the Ghost? 


IT WAS THE evening when Monsieur Debienne and Monsieur 
Poligny, the outgoing managers of the Paris Opera, gave their 
last gala performance on the occasion of their departure. The 
dressing room of La Sorelli, one of the leading ballerinas, was 
suddenly invaded by half a dozen members of the corps de ballet 
who had just left the stage after ‘‘dancing’’ Polyeucte. They 
rushed into the room in great confusion, some laughing wildly 
and unnaturally, others uttering cries of terror. 

_ Wanting to be alone for a few minutes to rehearse the speech 
she would soon give before Debienne and Poligny in the lounge, 
La Sorelli had been irritated at seeing that throng of overwrought 
young women come in behind her. She turned to them and asked 
the reason for their agitation. Little Jammes—a nose of the kind 
dear to Grévin, eyes the color of blue forget-me-nots, rosy 
cheeks, a lily-white bosom—explained it in three words, her 
voice choked and quavering with anxiety: 

‘It’s the ghost!’ — 

And she locked the door. 

La Sorelli’s dressing room had an official, commonplace ele- 
gance. The necessary furniture was composed of a full-length 
mirror mounted on swivels, a couch, a dressing table, and 
wardrobes. A few engravings on the walls, souvenirs of her 
mother, who had known the glorious days of the old Opera 
House on the Rue Le Peletier. Portraits of Vestris, Gardel, 
Dupont, and Bigottini. This dressing room seemed like a palace 
to those girls who were lodged in shared rooms where they spent 


6 


THE PHANTOM OF THE OPERA 7 


their time singing, quarreling, pummeling the hairdressers and 
dressers, and buying each other little glasses of beer or black 
currant liqueur, or even rum, until the callboy rang his bell. 

La Sorelli was very superstitious. When she heard little Jammes 
mention the ghost, she shuddered and said, *‘You little fool!’’ 

And since she was the first to believe in ghosts in general, and 
the Opera ghost in particular, she wanted more information. 

**Did you see him?’’ she asked. 

‘‘As plainly as I see you!’’ little Jammes answered with a 
moan. Her legs buckled and she let herself fall onto a chair. 

And little Giry—dark eyes, jet-black hair, a swarthy complex- 
ion, her poor little skin clinging to her bones—immediately 
said, ‘‘If that was the ghost, he’s really ugly!’’ 

‘‘Oh, yes!’’ the other dancers exclaimed in unison. 

And they all talked at once. The ghost had appeared to them in 
the guise of a gentleman in a black swallow-tailed coat who 
suddenly stood before them in the hall, without anyone’s having 
seen where he came from. He had appeared so abruptly that it 
was as if he had come out of the wall. 

‘‘Oh, you see ghosts everywhere!’’ said one of the dancers 
who had more or less kept a cool head. 

And it was true that for several months everyone in the Opera 
had been talking about that ghost in evening dress. He moved all 
through the building like a shadow, spoke to no one (and no one 
dared speak to him), and vanished as soon as he was seen, so 
quickly that no one could say how he did it or where he had 
gone. As was proper for a real ghost, he made no sound when he 
walked. At first, everyone had laughed and joked about that 
phantom dressed as a man about town or an undertaker, but his 
legend soon took on colossal proportions within the corps de 
ballet. The dancers all claimed to have met him in one way or 
another, and to have been victims of his evil spells. And those 
who laughed the loudest were not the least apprehensive. When 
he did not let himself be seen, he indicated his presence by 
comical happenings for which he was held responsible by the 
superstition that nearly everyone shared. An accident, a lost 
powder puff, a practical joke played on a dancer by one of her 
friends—it was all the fault of the ghost, the phantom of the 

ra! 

Actually, who had seen him? At the Opera there are so many 
men in black swallow-tailed coats who are not ghosts! But this 


8 Gaston Leroux 


black swallow-tailed coat differed from others in one respect: it 
was worn by a skeleton. Or at least that was what the dancers 
said. And the skeleton, of course, had a death’s-head. 

Did all this deserve to be taken seriously? The truth is that the 
idea of a skeleton arose from a description of the ghost given by 
Joseph Buquet, the chief stagehand, who had really seen him. 
He had come face to face with him on the little staircase that 
begins near the footlights and goes down to the ‘‘cellars.’’ He 
had seen him for only a second before the ghost hurried away, 
but that second had made an indelible impression on him. 

And here is what Joseph Buquet said about the ghost to 
anyone willing to listen: 

‘‘He’s incredibly thin; his black coat hangs loosely on his bony 
body. His eyes stare straight ahead, without moving, and they’re 
so deep-set that you can hardly see them. All you really see is 
two dark holes, like the ones in a skull. His skin is tight as a 
drum. It’s not white, but an ugly yellow. His nose is so small 
you can’t see it when you look at him from the side, and that 
absence of a nose is something horrible to see. The only hair he 
has is three or four long, dark locks that hang down over his 
forehead and behind his ears.”’ 

He had vainly tried to catch that strange apparition. It had 
disappeared as though by magic and he had been unable to find 
any trace of it. | 

This chief stagehand was a serious, steady man with a slow 
imagination, and he was sober. His words were listened to with 
astonishment and interest. Several other people immediately be- 
gan saying that they too had encountered an apparition in eve- 
ning dress, with a face like a death’s-head. 

At first, sensible people who heard Joseph Buquet’s story said 
he had been the victim of a practical joke by one of his subordi- 
nates. Then, one after another, came incidents so curious and 
inexplicable that even the shrewdest skeptics were shaken. 

A fireman is brave. He fears nothing, and certainly not fire! 

The fireman in question,* a lieutenant, went to make a-tour of 
inspection in the cellars and, it seems, ventured a little farther 
than usual. He suddenly reappeared in the auditorium, pale, 
trembling, and bewildered, with his eyes bulging almost out of 


*This true story was told to me by Pedro Gailhard, the former manager of 
the Opera. 


THE PHANTOM OF THE OPERA 9 


their sockets, and he nearly fainted in the arms of little Jammes’s 
noble mother. And why? Because he had seen a head of fire, 
without a body, coming toward him at eye level. And, I repeat, a 
fireman is not afraid of fire! 

This fireman’s name was Papin. 

The corps de ballet was in consternation. First of all, that head 
of fire did not at all match the description of the ghost given by 
Joseph Buquet. The fireman was carefully questioned, and Jo- 
seph Buquet was questioned once again; the dancers were then 
convinced that the ghost had several heads and changed them at 
will. They naturally imagined that they were in grave danger. 
Since a fireman, and a lieutenant at that, had not hesitated to 
faint, the ballerinas and student dancers found ample excuses for 
the terror that made them run as fast as their legs could carry 
them whenever they had to pass by a patch of darkness in a 
dimly lighted hall. 

And so, on the day after the fireman had told his story, La 
Sorelli decided to give as much protection as possible to the 
building that had come under such an evil spell. Surrounded by 
all the dancers, and even followed by the whole body of younger 
pupils in tights, she went to the doorkeeper’s vestibule, near the 
administration courtyard, and put a horseshoe on the table there. 
Everyone, other than spectators, who came into the Opera was 
expected to touch that horseshoe before starting up the stairs. 
Anyone who failed to do so would risk becoming a victim of the 
dark power that had taken possession of the building, from the 
cellars to the attic. 

I have not invented that horseshoe—or anything else in this 
story, unfortunately—and it can still be seen on the table in the 
vestibule, in front of the doorkeeper’s quarters, when one comes 
into the Opera by way of the administration courtyard. 

All this will give some idea of the dancers’ state of mind when 
they went into La Sorelli’s dressing room. 

‘It was the ghost!’’ little Jammes had exclaimed, and the 
dancers’ anxiety had increased still more. 

Now there was an agonizing silence in the room, broken only 
by the sound of rapid breathing. Finally, showing genuine fear, 
Jammes ran to the farthest corner and murmured a single word: 

**Listen!’’ 

It seemed to everyone that a rustling sound was coming from 
the other side of the door. No footsteps. It was as if light silk 


10 Gaston Leroux 


cloth were sliding across the door. Then there was nothing. La 
Sorelli tried to be less fainthearted than her companions. She 
went to the door and asked in a toneless voice, ‘‘Who’s there?’’ 

But no one answered. 

Feeling all eyes watching her slightest movements, she forced 
herself to be brave and asked very loudly, ‘‘Is there someone out 
there in the hall?’’ 

“Oh, yes, of course there is!’’ said the swarthy little Meg 
Giry, heroically holding La Sorelli by her gauze skirt. ‘‘Don’t 
open the door! My God, don’t open it!”’ 

But La Sorelli, armed with a stiletto that was always with her, 
dared to unlock the door and open it while the dancers retreated 
into the bathroom and Meg Giry gasped, ‘‘Mama! Mama!’’ 

La Sorelli courageously looked out into the hall. It was empty; 
a gaslight, like a butterfly of fire in a glass prison, cast a grim 
red glow into the surrounding shadows without succeeding in 
dissipating them. With a heavy sigh, La Sorelli quickly closed 
the door again. 

*““No,”’ she said, ‘‘there’s no one there.’’ 

“But we saw him!’’ Jammes insisted, coming back to La 
Sorelli with timorous little steps. ‘“He must be prowling around 
here somewhere. I’m not going back to get dressed. We should 
all go down to the lounge together right now, for the speech, and 
come back up together.”’ 

She piously touched the little coral finger that was meant to 
ward off bad luck. And, with the tip of her pink right thumbnail, 
La Sorelli furtively drew a St. Andrew’s cross on the wooden 
ring that encircled the third finger of her left hand. 

A famous newspaper columnist once wrote the following: 


La Sorelli is a great dancer, a beautiful woman with a 
grave, voluptuous face and a body as supple as a willow 
branch; it is commonly said of her that she is ‘‘a lovely 
creature.’’ Her head sways gently, like an egret plume, on a 
long, proud, elegant neck. When she dances, her hips have 
a certain indescribable movement that gives her whole body a 
quiver of ineffable languor. When she raises her arms and 
bends to begin a pirouette, thus accentuating the lines of her 
bust and making her hip stand out, the sight is said to be 
enough to make a man blow his brains out from unfulfilled 
desire. 


THE PHANTOM OF THE OPERA 11 


As far as brains are concerned, it seems well established that 
she had almost none. No one held it against her. 

‘‘You must get a grip on yourselves, girls!’’ she said to the 
little dancers. ‘“The ghost? Maybe no one has ever seen him!”’ 

‘‘We saw him,”’ one of the girls protested, “‘with his black 
coat and his death’s-head, the way he was when Joseph Buquet 
saw him!’’ 

‘‘And Gabriel saw him too, only yesterday,’ 
‘‘yesterday afternoon, in broad daylight!”’ 

‘Gabriel the chorus master?”’ 

‘‘Of course. You mean you didn’t know about it?’’ 

‘*And he was in evening dress, in broad daylight?’’ 

‘“Who? Gabriel?’’ 

“‘No, no, the ghost!’’ 

‘*That’s right, he was in evening dress,’’ said Jammes. ‘*Ga- 
briel told me so himself. That’s how he recognized him, in fact. 
Here’s how it happened: Gabriel was in the stage manager’s 
office. All at once the door opened and the Persian came in. You 
know the Persian has the evil eye... .”’ 

‘“‘Oh, yes!’’ the little dancers all exclaimed together, and as 
soon as each of them saw a mental image of the Persian she 
protected herself from his evil eye by raising her hand and 
making a pair of horns, extending her forefinger and little finger 
while her thumb held her other two fingers against her palm. 

*‘And you know how superstitious Gabriel is!’’ Jammes went 
on. ‘‘He’s polite, though, and usually when he sees the Persian 
he just puts his hand in his pocket and touches his keys. But this 
time it was different: as soon as he saw the Persian come in, he 
jumped up from his chair and ran to the lock on the closet door 
to touch iron. When he did that, he caught his coat on a nail and 
made a big rip in it. And he was in such a hurry to leave that he 
banged into a hat peg and gave himself a huge lump on the 
forehead. Then he quickly stepped backward and scraped his arm 
on the folding screen by the piano. He tried to lean on the piano 
but he didn’t watch what he was doing and the keyboard cover 
fell down hard on his fingers. He dashed out of the office like a 
madman, stumbled on the stairs and slid all the way down on his 
back. My mother and I were passing by just then. We hurried to 
help him stand up. We were scared when we saw how he looked: 
he was battered and bruised, and there was blood all over his 
face. But he smiled at us and said, “Thank God I got off with so 


9 


said Jammes, 


12 Gaston Leroux 


little damage!’ Then we questioned him and he told us why he’d 
been afraid: it was because he’d seen the ghost behind the 
Persian, the ghost with the death’s-head, the way Joseph Buquet 
described him.”’ 

Jammes had spoken so rapidly, as if the ghost were after her, 
that she was breathless by the time she came to the end of her 
story. It was greeted by a frightened murmur, followed by 
another silence, during which La Sorelli feverishly polished her 
fingernails. 

‘Joseph Buquet should keep quiet,’’ Meg Giry said in an 
undertone. 

‘*Why should he?’’ she was asked. 

‘*That’s what my mother thinks,’’ she replied, lowering her 
voice still more and looking around her as if she were afraid of 
being heard by ears other than those she could see. 

‘“‘And why does your mother think so?’’ 

‘“Not so loud! She says the ghost doesn’t like to be bothered.’’ 

**And why does she say that?’’ 

““Because . . . Because . . . Nothing.”’ 

This skillfully expressed reticence goaded the dancers’ curios- 
ity. They crowded around Meg and begged her to explain her- 
self. Standing there elbow-to-elbow, leaning forward in a single 
entreaty, they transmitted their fear to each other and took keen, 
chilling pleasure in it. 

“IT swore not to tell!’ Meg whispered. 

But they continued their urgent pleas and promised secrecy so 
convincingly that Meg, who was dying to tell what she knew, 
looked intently at the door and began: 

*‘All right. . . . It’s because of the box... .”’ 

“What box?’’ 

‘*The ghost’s box, here in the Opera.”’ 

**The ghost has a box?’’ 

At this idea that the ghost had his own private box, the 
dancers gasped with amazement and a kind of somber joy. 

‘‘Oh! Tell us! Tell us about it!’’ 

‘Not so loud!’’ Meg ordered again. ‘‘It’s Box Five. You 
know, the one next to the stage box in the first left tier.’’ 

**Really?”’ . 

‘Yes, really. My mother is the usher in charge of it. But you 
swear you won’t tell, don’t you?’’ 

“*Of course!”’ 


THE PHANTOM OF THE OPERA 13 


‘“‘Well, that’s the ghost’s box. No one has been in it for more 
than a month—no one but the ghost, that is—and orders have 
been given that it’s never to be rented again.”’ 

‘‘And it’s true that the ghost comes there?’’ 

‘*Yes, it is.”’ 

‘“‘Then someone comes into the box.”’ 

“The ghost comes into it, but there’s no one there.”’ 

The little dancers looked at one another. If the ghost came into 
the box, it should be possible to see him, since he wore a black 
swallow-tailed coat and had a death’s-head. 

They said this to Meg, but she answered, ‘‘No, it’s not 
possible to see him! He doesn’t have a black coat or a head. 
You’ve heard about his death’s-head and his head of fire, but 
that’s all nonsense. He doesn’t have anything. . . . He’s heard 
only when he’s in the box. My mother has never seen him, but 
she’s heard him. She knows he can’t be seen because she’s the 
one who gives him the program!”’ 

La Sorelli felt it was time for her to intervene. 

‘‘Meg, you don’t really expect us to believe that silly story, do 
you?’’ 

Meg burst into tears. 

‘‘T should have kept my mouth shut! If my mother ever finds 
out. . . But Joseph Buquet is wrong to stick his nose into things 
that are none of his business. It will bring him bad luck. My 
mother said so last night.’’ 

Just then they all heard heavy, rapid footsteps in the hall, and 
a breathless voice shouting, ‘‘Cécile! Cécile! Are you there?’’ 

‘‘That’s my mother!’’ said little Jammes. ‘“What can be the 
matter?’’ 

She opened the door. A respectable-looking lady, built like a 
Pomeranian grenadier, burst into the dressing room and sank into 
an armchair with a groan. Her eyes rolled wildly, seeming to 
illuminate her brick-colored face in an ominous way. 

‘*It’s horrible!’’ she said. 

‘*What’s horrible?’’ 

‘‘Joseph Buquet .. . He’s... 

‘‘He’s what?’’ 

‘‘He’s dead!’ 

The room was filled with exclamations, astonished protests, 
and frightened requests for explanation. 

“Yes... . He was just found in the third cellar, hanged,”’ 


14 Gaston Leroux 


continued the poor honorable lady, breathing heavily. ‘‘But the 
most terrible part of it is that the stagehands who found his body 
claim that all around it they heard a sound like the singing of the 
dead!”’ 

‘The ghost did it!’’ cried Meg Giry. The words seemed to 
have slipped out against her will. She immediately put her fists 
in front of her mouth. ‘‘No, no, I didn’t say anything! I didn’t 
say anything!’’ 

Around her, all her companions were repeating in voices 
lowered by terror, ‘‘Yes! Yes! It was the ghost!’’ 

La Sorelli was pale. 

““Now I’ll never be able to give my speech,’ she said. 

Little Jammes’s mother stated her opinion as she emptied a 
glass of liqueur that had been left on the table: ‘‘The ghost must 
have had something to do with it.’’ 

The fact is that the way Joseph Buquet died never became 
known. The brief investigation gave no result, except for a 
conclusion of ‘‘natural suicide.’’ In his Memoirs of a Manager, 
Moncharmin, one of the two managers who succeeded Debienne 
and Poligny, gives this account of Buquet’s death: 


An unfortunate incident disturbed the little celebration that 
Debienne and Poligny gave on the occasion of their depar- 
ture. I was in the managerial office when Mercier, the admin- 
istrator, suddenly came in. Panic-stricken, he told me that the 
body of a stagehand had just been found, hanged, in the third 
cellar, between a flat and a set piece from Le Roi de Lahore. 

‘‘Let’s go and take him down,’’ I said. 

By the time I had hurried down the stairs and the ladder, 
the hanged man had already lost his rope! 


Here, then, is a series of events that seems natural to 
Moncharmin: a man is hanged at the end of a rope, Moncharmin 
goes to take him down, and the rope has disappeared. He found 
a simple explanation. Listen to him: ‘‘It was during the time of 
the ballet; the ballerinas and student dancers had quickly taken 
their precautions against the evil eye.’’ Period, end of explana- 
tion. Just imagine the corps de ballet scrambling down the ladder 
and dividing up the hanged man’s rope in less time than it takes 
to write about it! No, that idea does not deserve to be taken 
seriously. But when I consider the exact place where the body 


THE PHANTOM OF THE OPERA 15 


was found, in the third cellar below the stage, I think that 
someone might have had an interest in having the rope disappear 
after it had served its purpose, and we will see later whether or 
not I am right in thinking so. 

The sinister news quickly spread all over the Opera, where 
Joseph Buquet had been greatly liked. The dressing rooms emp- 
tied and the little dancers, grouped around La Sorelli like fright- 
ened sheep around their shepherd, headed for the lounge, trotting 
along dimly lighted halls and staircases as fast as their pink little 
legs could carry them. 


2 


The New Marguerite 


ON THE First landing, La Sorelli ran into Count de Chagny as he 
was coming up. The count, ordinarily so calm, now showed 
signs of great excitement. 

‘I was on my way to your dressing room,”’ he said, gallantly 
bowing to the young woman. ‘‘Ah, Sorelli, what a wonderful 
evening! And for Christine Daae, what a triumph!”’ 

‘‘Impossible!’’ protested Meg Giry. ‘‘Six months ago, she 
sang like a rusty hinge! But please let us pass, my dear count,”’ 
she continued with a pert curtsy, ‘‘we’re going to try to find out 
more about a poor man who was found hanged.”’ 

Just then the administrator was busily hurrying past. He stopped 
abruptly when he heard Meg’s last words. 

‘““What! You ladies already know about it?’’ he said rather 
gruffly. ‘‘Well, don’t talk about it—and make sure Monsieur 
Debienne and Monsieur Poligny don’t hear about it! It would 
cause them too much sorrow on their last day.”’ 

They all went off to the dancers’ lounge, which was already 
crowded. 

Count de Chagny was right: no other gala performance was 
ever comparable to that one. The privileged people who attended 
it still tell their children and grandchildren about it with deep 
emotion. Think of it: Gounod, Reyer, Saint-Saéns, Massenet, 
Guiraud, and Delibes all went before the orchestra, one after 
another, and personally conducted some of their works. Faure 
and Krauss were among the performers, and that was the evening 
when fashionable Paris society was amazed and enraptured by 


16 


THE PHANTOM OF THE OPERA 17 


the discovery of Christine Daae, whose mysterious destiny I 
intend to describe in this book. 

Gounod conducted La marche funébre d’ une marionnette; Reyer, 
his beautiful overture to Sigurd; Saint-Saéns, La danse macabre 
and a Réverie orientale; Massenet, a Marche hongroise inédite; 
Guiraud, his Carnaval; Delibes, the Valse lente from Sylvia and 
the pizzicati from Coppélia. Marie Gabriele Krauss and Denise 
Bloch sang: the former, the bolero from Sicilian Vespers; the 
latter, the brindisi from Lucrezia Borgia. 

But it was Christine Daae who had the greatest triumph. She 
began by singing a few passages from Gounod’s Roméo et 
Juliette. This was the first time she had sung anything from that 
work. It had not yet been produced at the Opera, and the 
Opéra-Comique had just revived it long after Madame Carvalho’s 
appearance in its opening performance at the old Théatre-Lyrique. 
We must pity those who never heard Christine Daae in the role 
of Juliet, who never knew her guileless charm, who never thrilled 
to the accents of her angelic voice, who never felt their soul soar 
with hers above the graves of the lovers of Verona: ‘‘Lord! Lord! 
Lord! Forgive us!’’ 

Yet that was nothing compared with the superhuman perfor- 
mance she gave in the prison scene and the final trio in Faust, 
which she sang in place of Carlotta, who was ill. No one had 
ever heard or seen anything like it! It was ‘‘the new Marguerite’’ 
that Christine had revealed, a Marguerite with a previously 
unsuspected splendor and radiance. 

The wildly enthusiastic audience paid thunderous tribute to 
Christine while she sobbed and finally fainted in the arms of her 
companions. Seemingly lifeless, she had to be carried back to 
her dressing room. 

The great critic P. de St-V. preserved the memory of that 
marvelous evening in an article that he entitled ““The New 
Marguerite.’’ Being a great artist as well, he was aware that 
that sweet and beautiful girl had brought more than her art 
to the stage of the Opera: she had also brought her heart. 
All friends of the Opera knew that her heart had remained as 
pure as at the age of fifteen, and P. de St-V. wrote that in 
order to understand what had happened to her, he had ‘‘to 
assume that she had just fallen in love for the first time.’’ And 
he continued: 


18 Gaston Leroux 


I am perhaps indiscreet, but only love is capable of work- 
ing such a miracle, of causing such a drastic transformation. 
Two years ago we heard Christine Daae in her competition at 
the conservatory and she gave us a charming hope. What is 
the origin of the sublime talent she had today? If it did not 
come down from heaven on the wings of love, I must believe 
that it came up from hell and that Christine Daae, like 
Ofterdingen the mastersinger, has made a pact with the devil! 
Anyone who has not heard her sing the final trio in Faust 
does not know Faust: the exaltation of a voice and the rapture 
of a pure soul can go no further! 


A few subscribers, however, protested. Why had such a trea- 
sure been hidden from them so long? Till then, Christine Daae 
had played an adequate Siebel to Carlotta’s somewhat too splen- 
didly material Marguerite. It was only because of Carlotta’s 
incomprehensible and inexcusable absence from the gala perfor- 
mance that Christine, filling in at a moment’s notice, had been 
able to show her true worth in the part of the program originally 
reserved for the Spanish diva. But why had Debienne and Poligny 
chosen Christine when they learned that Carlotta would not 
appear? Had they known about her hidden genius? If so, why had 
they kept it hidden? And why had she herself hidden it? Strangely, 
she was not known to have a teacher. She had said repeatedly 
that from now on she would work alone. All this was inexplicable. 

Standing in his box, Count de Chagny had seen and heard the 
frenzied ovation given to her, and had joined in it with his own 
shouts of ‘‘Bravo!’’ 

Count Philippe-Georges-Marie de Chagny, forty-one at that 
time, was a great nobleman and a handsome man. He was taller 
than average and had a pleasing face despite the hard lines of his 
forehead and the touch of coldness in his eyes; he treated women 
with refined courtesy and was a little haughty with men, who did 
not always forgive him for his social success. He had an excel- 
lent heart and an honorable conscience. Through the death of old 
Count Philibert, he had become the head of one of the most 
ancient and illustrious families in France, whose nobility went 
back to the time of Louis X. 

The Chagny fortune was substantial. When the old count died a 
widower, it was no easy task for Philippe to take over the 
management of such a large estate. His two sisters and his 


THE PHANTOM OF THE OPERA 19 


brother Raoul had never even considered partition; they main- 
tained joint possession and relied on Philippe’s judgment in all 
matters, as if the law of primogeniture were still in effect. When 
his sisters married—on the same day—they took their shares 
from him, not as something that belonged to them, but as a 
dowry for which they thanked him. 

Countess de Chagny—née de Moerogis de la Martyniére—had 
died in giving birth to Raoul, who was born twenty years after 
Philippe. Raoul was twelve when the old count died. Philippe 
took an active part in the boy’s upbringing, ably assisted first by 
his sisters, then by an old aunt who lived in Brest and gave 
Raoul a taste for seafaring. The young man took his nautical 
training aboard the school ship Borda, graduated near the top of 
his class, and took the traditional trip around the world. Thanks 
to powerful backing, he had just been assigned to the official 
mission of the Requin, to search the polar ice for survivors of the 
D’ Artois expedition, which had not been heard from for three 
years. In the meantime he was enjoying a long leave that would 
not be over for six months, and the dowagers of the elegant 
Faubourg Saint-Germain already pitied that handsome youth, 
who looked so frail, for the hardships that lay in store for him. 

His shyness—I am tempted to call it his innocence—was 
remarkable. He gave the impression that he had just left the 
women who had brought him up. He had been pampered by his 
two sisters and his old aunt, and that purely feminine upbringing 
had left him with artless manners that had a charm which nothing 
had yet been able to mar. He was now twenty-one and looked 
eighteen. He had a little blond mustache, attractive blue eyes, 
and a girlish complexion. 

Philippe spoiled Raoul a great deal. For one thing, he was 
very proud of him and happily looked forward to a glorious 
career for him in the navy, where one of their ancestors, the 
famous Chagny de La Roche, had held the rank of admiral. He 
was taking advantage of the young sailor’s leave to show him 
Paris. Raoul had known almost nothing of what the city could 
offer in the way of luxurious delights and artistic pleasures. 

The count felt that at Raoul’s age too much goodness was not 
good. Philippe had a well-balanced character; he was level- 
headed in his pleasures as well as his work, his manners were 
always impeccable, and he was incapable of setting a bad exam- 
ple for his brother. He took him with him everywhere. He even 


20 Gaston Leroux 


introduced him into the dancers’ lounge at the Opera. I know it 
was said that Philippe was ‘‘on the closest of terms’’ with La 
Sorelli. But since he was a bachelor and therefore had large 
amounts of free time, especially now that his sisters were mar- 
ried, it was surely no crime for him to come and spend an hour 
or two after dinner with a dancer who, though far from being 
renowned for her sparkling wit, had the prettiest eyes in the 
world. Furthermore, there are places where a real Parisian of 
Count de Chagny’s rank must show himself, and at that time the 
dancers’ lounge was one of those places. 

But Philippe might not have taken his brother into the corri- 
dors of the National Academy of Music if Raoul had not repeat- 
edly asked it of him, with a gentle persistence that the count was 
to remember later. 

After applauding Christine Daae that evening, Philippe turned 
to Raoul and saw him so pale that it alarmed him. 

‘‘Don’t you see that she’s about to faint?’’ said Raoul. 

And it was true that, on the stage, Christine had to be sup- 
ported by those around her. 

‘“You’re the one who’s about to faint,’’ said Philippe, leaning 
toward Raoul. ‘‘What’s the matter?” 

But Raoul stood up. 

“*Let’s go,’” he said in an unsteady voice. 

‘“Where do you want to go?’’ asked Philippe, surprised by his 
brother’s intense emotion. 

‘*Let’s go and see! This is the first time she’s ever sung like 
that!”’ 

Philippe gave Raoul a curious look and his lips curved into a 
little smile of amusement. 

““Well, why not?’’ he said, seemingly delighted. ‘‘Come, let’s 
go.”’ 

They soon reached the subscribers’ entrance and found it 
clogged with people. While he waited till he could get to the 
stage, Raoul tore his gloves without realizing what he was doing. 
Philippe was too good-natured to make fun of his impatience. 
But he had understood: he now knew why Raoul seemed preoc- 
cupied when he talked to him, and also why he seemed to take 
such great pleasure in turning all conversation to the subject of 
the Opera. 

They stepped onto the stage. 

A crowd of men in evening dress were hurrying toward the 


THE PHANTOM OF THE OPERA 21 


dancers’ lounge or the performers’ dressing rooms. The stage- 
hands’ shouts were mingled with vehement outbursts from crew 
chiefs. The departing supernumeraries from the last tableau, the 
figurantes who jostle you, the frame of a flat being carried past, 
a backdrop coming down from the rigging loft, a practicable 
window being secured with vigorous hammering, the constant 
warning cries that make you fear that something is about to 
knock off your top hat or smash into you from behind—such is 
the usual intermission commotion that never fails to trouble a 
novice like the young man with a little blond mustache, blue 
eyes, and a girlish complexion who was crossing, as rapidly as 
the bustle and congestion would allow, that stage on which 
Christine Daae had just triumphed, and under which Joseph 
Buquet had just died. 

That evening, the confusion had never been more comp'ete, 
but Raoul had never been less timid. He firmly shouldered aside 
everyone in his way, ignored what was said around him, and did 
not even try to understand the frantic words of the stagehands. 
He was concerned only with his desire to see the young woman 
whose magic voice had captured his heart. Yes, he felt that his 
poor, inexperienced heart no longer belonged to him. He had 
tried to defend it since the day when Christine, whom he had 
known when she was a little girl, had come back into his life. He 
had decided that he must struggle against the sweet feelings she 
aroused in him because, true to his respect for himself and his 
faith, he had sworn to love only the woman who would be his 
wife, and it was naturally out of the question for him to marry a 
singer. But the sweet feelings had been succeeded by a terrible 
sensation. Sensation? Sentiment? It was both physical and emo- 
tional. His chest hurt, as if someone had cut it open to take out 
his heart. He felt a dreadful hollowness in it, a real emptiness 
that could never be filled except by Christine’s heart. Such are 
the symptoms of a psychological malady that, it seems, can be 
understood only by those who have had the experience com- 
monly described as ‘‘falling head over heels in love.’’ 

Count Philippe had difficulty keeping up with him. He was 
still smiling. 

At the back of the stage, past the double door opening onto the 
steps that lead to the dancers’ lounge and those that lead to the 
ground-floor boxes on the left side, Raoul was stopped by a little 


22 Gaston Leroux 


troupe of student dancers who had just come down from their 
attic and were now blocking the passageway he wanted to enter. 
Mocking words were spoken to him by little painted lips, but he 
did not answer. Finally he was able to get past and started along 
a corridor filled with the sound of exclamations from enthusiastic 
admirers. One name rose above the hubbub: ‘‘Daae! Daae!”’ 

Behind Raoul, Philippe said to himself, ‘‘He knows the way, 
the rascal!’’ and wondered how he had learned it. He had never 
taken him to Christine’s dressing room. Raoul must have gone 
there by himself while Philippe went to the lounge, as usual, to 
talk with La Sorelli. She often asked him to stay with her till she 
went onstage, and she sometimes carried her tyranny so far as to 
ask him to keep the little gaiters she wore when she came down 
from her dressing room, to preserve the luster of her satin 
slippers and the cleanness of her flesh-colored tights. She had an 
excuse: she had lost her mother. 

Postponing for a few minutes the visit he owed to La Sorelli, 
Philippe followed Raoul along the corridor that led to Christine’s 
dressing room. He had never before seen that corridor so crowded 
as it was now, when everyone in the Opera seemed to be excited 
by Christine’s success and upset by the fact that she had fainted. 
She had not yet come to, and the house doctor had been sent 
for. He was now heading for her dressing room, pushing his way 
through groups of people. Raoul followed so closely behind him 
that he almost stepped on his heels. - 

So the doctor and Raoul reached Christine at the same time; 
she was given first aid by the former and opened her eyes in the 
latter’s arms. Philippe was part of the tightly packed throng in 
front of the doorway. 

‘‘Don’t you think, doctor, that those gentlemen ought to clear 
out of the room?’’ Raoul asked with incredible boldness. ‘‘It’s 
terribly stuffy in here.’’ 

“*You’re quite right,’’ said the doctor, and made everyone 
leave the room except Raoul and the maid. 

The maid stared at Raoul in wide-eyed bewilderment. She had 
never seen him before. But she did not dare to question him. 

The doctor assumed that since this young man had acted that 
way, he had a right to. So Raoul remained in the dressing room, 
watching Christine regain her senses, while even the two manag- 
ers, Debienne and Poligny, who had come to express their 


THE PHANTOM OF THE OPERA 23 


admiration of her, were pushed into the hall, along with the men 
in evening dress. 

Count Philippe de Chagny, expelled like the others, laughed 
aloud and exclaimed, ‘‘Oh, the rascal! The rascal!’’ Then he 
thought, ‘‘It shows you can’t trust those young fellows with 
girlish faces!’’ He grinned and concluded, ‘‘He’s a real Chagny!”’ 

He started toward La Sorelli’s dressing room, but she was 
already going down to the lounge with her frightened little flock 
and she met him on the way, as we saw at the beginning of this 
chapter. 

In her dressing room, Christine heaved a deep sigh that was 
answered by a groan. She turned her head, saw Raoul, and 
started. She looked at the doctor and smiled at him, then looked 
at her maid, and finally at Raoul again. 

‘“*Who are you, sir?’’ she asked him in a voice that was not yet 
much louder than a whisper. 

He knelt on one knee and ardently kissed her hand. 

‘““Mademoiselle,’’ he said, ‘‘I’m the little boy who went into 
the sea to get your scarf.”’ 

Christine again looked at the doctor and the maid, and the 
three of them laughed. Raoul stood up, red-faced. 

‘*Mademoiselle, since it pleases you not to recognize me, 
I'd like to tell you something in private, something very 
important. ”’ 

‘““Would you mind waiting till I’m feeling better?’’ she said, 
her voice quavering. ‘‘You’re very kind... .’’ 

‘*But you must leave,’’ the doctor said to Raoul with his most 
gracious smile. “Let me take care of Mademoiselle Daae.’’ 

“I’m not sick,’’ Christine said abruptly, with a vigor as 
strange as it was unexpected. She stood up and rapidly passed 
her hand over her eyes. ‘‘I thank you, doctor, but I need to be 
alone now. Please leave, all of you. I’m very nervous this 
evening.”’ 

‘The doctor tried to protest but, seeing her agitation, he de- 
cided that the best remedy for such a state would be to let her 
have her way. He left with Raoul, who found himself standing in 
the hall, disconcerted. 

**T don’t recognize her this evening,’’ the doctor said to him. 
“‘She’s usually so calm and gentle... .”’ 

And he walked away. 


24. Gaston Leroux 


Raoul was alone: that whole part of the Opera was now 
deserted. The farewell ceremony had evidently begun in the 
dancers’ lounge. Thinking that Christine might go there, Raoul 
waited in solitude and silence. He even hid in the welcome 
darkness of a doorway. He still had that terrible pain in the 
empty place where his heart had been. And that was what he 
wanted to tell Christine about, without delay. 

Suddenly the door of the dressing room opened and he saw 
the maid leave alone, carrying several packages. He stopped her 
and asked her how her mistress was feeling. She laughed and 
answered that her mistress was feeling quite well now, but that 
he should not disturb her, because she wanted to be alone. Then 
she hurried away. 

An idea flashed into Raoul’s overheated mind: Christine obvi- 
ously wanted to be alone for him! He had told her he wanted to 
talk to her in private, and that was why she had told everyone to 
leave.. Scarcely breathing, he went back to the door of her 
dressing room, put his ear close to it to hear what she would 
answer, and raised his hand to knock. But then he lowered it. He 
had just heard a man’s voice coming from the dressing room, 
saying in a singularly authoritarian tone, “‘Christine, you must 
love me!”’ 

And Christine’s voice, quavering and tearful, answered, ‘*How 
can you say that to me, when I sing only for you?”’ 

Raoul’s suffering weakened him to the point where he had to 
lean against the door. His heart, which had seemed to be gone 
forever, had now come back into his chest and was pounding 
loudly. The whole corridor resounded with the noise and his ears 
felt deafened by it. If his heart went on making such a din, it 
would be heard, the door would open, and he would be ignomin- 
iously sent away. What a position for a Chagny to be in: 
eavesdropping at a door! He put both hands over his heart to 
quiet it. But a heart is not a dog’s mouth, and even if you hold a 
dog’s mouth shut with both hands to stop his unbearable barking, 
you still hear him growl. 

The man’s voice spoke again: 

‘*You must be tired.’’ 

‘“‘Oh, yes! Tonight I gave you my soul, and I’m dead.”’ 

‘*Your soul is very beautiful, my child,’’ said the man’s deep 
voice, ‘‘and I thank you. No emperor ever received such a gift! 
The angels wept tonight.”’ 


THE PHANTOM OF THE OPERA 25 


After those words, ‘‘The angels wept tonight,’’ Raoul heard 
nothing more. He did not leave, but since he was afraid of being 
seen he went back into his dark doorway, determined to wait 
there till the man left the dressing room. He had just learned love 
and hatred in the same evening. He knew that he loved; he 
wanted to discover whom he hated. 

To his surprise, the door opened and Christine, wrapped in 
furs, with her face hidden by a lace veil, came out alone. She 
closed the door, but Raoul observed that she did not lock it. She 
walked past him. He did not even follow her with his eyes, 
because his eyes were on the door. It did not open. When the 
corridor was empty again, he crossed it, opened the door of the 
dressing room, went in, and closed it behind him. He found 
himself in total darkness. The gaslights had been turned off. 

‘“*There’s someone here!’’ he said in a vibrant voice. ‘“Why is 
he hiding?’’ 

He stood with his back against the closed door. Darkness and 
silence. He heard only the sound of his own breathing. He did 
not realize that his conduct was unbelievably indiscreet. 

**You won’t leave here till I let you!’’ he said. ‘‘If you don’t 
answer, you’re a coward! But I’ll unmask you!”’ 

He struck a match. The flame lighted the room. He saw no 
one! After taking the precaution of locking the door, he lit the 
gaslights, went into the bathroom, opened the closets, searched, 
felt the walls with moist hands. Nothing! 

‘‘Am I losing my mind?’’ he said aloud. 

He stood there for ten minutes, listening to the hiss of the gas 
in the peace of that abandoned dressing room; although he was in 
love, he did not even think of taking a ribbon that would have 
brought him the perfume of the woman he loved. He left, not 
knowing what he was doing or where he was going. 

At one point in his aimless wandering, he felt cold air on his 
face and saw that he was at the bottom of a narrow staircase. 
Coming down it, behind him, were a group of workmen carrying 
a makeshift stretcher covered with a white cloth. 

‘Will you please tell me the way out?’’ he asked. 

‘It’s right in front of you,’’ one of the men replied. “‘As you 
can see, the door is open. But let me pass.”’ 

Raoul pointed to the stretcher and asked, with no real interest, 
‘*What’s that?’’ 


26 Gaston Leroux 


‘*That’s Joseph Buquet. He was found hanged in the third 
cellar, between a flat and a set piece from Le Roi de Lahore.”’ 

Raoul stepped aside to let them pass, then bowed and went 
out. 


3 


In Which, for the First Time, 
Debienne and Poligny Secretly 
Give the New Managers of the 
Opera, Armand Moncharmin 
and Firmin Richard, the Real 
and Mysterious Reason for 
Their Departure acon the 
National Academy of Musi 


MEANWHILE, THE FAREWELL ceremony was taking place. As I 
have said, that magnificent celebration was given by Debienne and 
Poligny on the occasion of their departure from the Opera; to use 
a common expression, they wanted to go out in a blaze of glory. 
Everyone who mattered in Parisian society and the arts had 
helped them to organize that ideal program with melancholy 
overtones. 

They all gathered in the dancers’ lounge, where La Sorelli was 
waiting for the two outgoing managers with a glass of cham- 
pagne in her hand and a prepared speech on the tip of her 
tongue. Her young and old companions in the corps de ballet 
were crowded around her, some talking quietly about the day’s 
events, others discreetly gesturing to their friends, who had 


27 


28 Gaston Leroux 


already formed a chattering throng around the buffet that stood 
on the sloping floor between two paintings by Boulenger: La 
Danse guerriére and La Danse champétre. 

A few of the dancers had already changed into their ordinary 
clothes, but most of them still wore their light gauze skirts. They 
all had the serious look that they considered proper for the 
occasion—all, that is, except little Jammes, who, being at the 
happy, carefree age of fifteen, seemed to have already forgotten 
the ghost and Joseph Buquet’s death and was constantly bab- 
bling, hopping around, and playing tricks on her friends. La 
Sorelli, exasperated, sternly called her to order when Debienne 
and Poligny appeared on the steps of the lounge. 

Everyone noticed that the two outgoing managers seemed 
cheerful. In the provinces, this would not have appeared natural 
to anyone, but in Paris it was regarded as being in very good 
taste. No one will ever be a Parisian without learning to put a 
mask of joy over his sorrows and a mask of sadness, boredom, 
or indifference over his inner joy. If you know that one of your 
friends is in distress, do not try to comfort him: he will tell you 
that things are already looking up for him; and if he has had a 
stroke of good luck, do not congratulate him on it: he will 
consider it so natural that he will be surprised that anyone should 
mention it. Parisians are always at a masked ball, and two men 
as sophisticated as Debienne and Poligny would not have made 
the mistake of coming into the dancers’ lounge and showing the 
genuine sorrow they were feeling. 

They smiled a little too much at La Sorelli when she began her 
speech. Then an exclamation from that scatterbrained little Jammes 
made their smiles vanish so suddenly that everyone saw the 
distress and fear they had been hiding. 

**The Opera ghost!’’ 

Jammes spoke these words in a tone of agonizing terror, and 
among the men in evening dress she pointed to a face so pale, 
mournful, and ugly, with such deep, dark eye sockets, that it 
looked like a death’s-head and was enthusiastically acclaimed. 

“The Opera ghost! The Opera ghost!’’ 

The delighted onlookers laughed, jostled each other, and tried 
to approach the Opera ghost to offer him a drink, but a moment 
later he was gone, apparently having slipped away in the crowd. 
They looked for him in vain while two old gentlemen tried to 
calm little Jammes and little Giry screeched like a peacock. 


THE PHANTOM OF THE OPERA 29 


La Sorelli was furious: she had not been able to finish her 
speech. Debienne and Poligny had kissed her, thanked her, and 
gone away as quickly as the ghost himself. No one was surprised 
by this, because everyone knew that they had to go through the 
same ceremony in the singers’ lounge on the floor above, and 
that finally they would entertain their close friends one last time 
in the large vestibule of the managerial office, where a real 
supper awaited them. 

And that is where we now find them, with the new managers, 
Armand Moncharmin and Firmin Richard. The two pairs of men 
scarcely knew each other, but they exchanged resounding com- 
pliments and great declarations of friendship, with the result that 
those guests who had been dreading a rather gloomy evening 
smiled brightly. During supper there was almost an atmosphere 
of gaiety. There were several occasions for toasts, and the 
government representative showed such special ability in propos- 
ing them, mingling the glory of the past with the success of the 
future, that great cordiality soon reigned among the guests. 

The transfer of managerial powers had taken place the day 
before, in an informal way, and the questions that needed to be 
settled between the new management and the old one had been 
resolved, under the moderating authority of the government rep- 
resentative, with such a great desire for agreement on both sides 
that no one could now be surprised, during that memorable 
evening, to see warm smiles on the four managerial faces. 

Debienne and Poligny gave Moncharmin and Richard the two 
little master keys that could unlock all of the several thousand 
doors in the National Academy of Music. Everyone was curious 
to see those keys. They were being passed from hand to hand 
when the attention of some of the guests was diverted by the 
sight of that strange figure with the pale, fantastic, hollow-eyed 
face who had already appeared in the dancers’ lounge and been 
greeted by little Jammes’s exclamation: ‘‘The Opera ghost!”’ 

He sat at the end of the table, acting as if his presence there 
were perfectly natural, except that he was not eating or drinking. 

Those who had smiled when they first saw him soon looked 
away because the sight of him aroused morbid thoughts. No one 
treated his appearance as a joke, as had been done in the lounge; 
no one cried, ‘“There’s the Opera ghost!’’ 

He had so far said nothing. Not even those beside him could 
have said exactly when he had come in and sat down there, but 


30 Gaston Leroux 


everyone thought that if the dead sometimes returned and sat at 
the table of the living, they could not show a more macabre 
face than this one. The friends of Moncharmin and Richard 
thought the cadaverous guest was a friend of Debienne and 
Poligny, while the friends of Debienne and Poligny thought he 
was a friend of Moncharmin and Richard, and so no one asked 
for an explanation and there were no unpleasant remarks or jokes 
in bad taste that might have offended him. 

A few of the guests who knew about the legend of the ghost 
and the description of him given by the chief stagehand—they 
had not yet learned of Joseph Buquet’s death—felt that the man 
at the end of the table could very well pass for a materialization 
of what they considered to be a fictitious character created by the 
incorrigible superstition of the Opera personnel. According to the 
legend, however, the ghost had no nose, whereas this man had 
one; but Moncharmin says in his memoirs that it was transparent— 
his exact words are ‘‘His nose was long, thin, and transparent’”’ 
—and I will add that it may have been a false nose. Moncharmin 
may have mistaken shininess for transparence. Everyone knows 
that science can make excellent false noses for people who have 
been deprived of a nose by nature or some sort of operation. 

Did the ghost really come and sit down at the managers’ 
banquet that night without being invited? And can we be sure 
that the face in question was that of the Opera ghost himself? 
Who would venture to say so? I have mentioned the incident not 
because I want to convince my readers that the ghost actually did 
show such splendid audacity, but only because I think that, all 
things considered, it is quite possible that he did. 

Here, it seems to me, is a sufficient reason for thinking so. 
Moncharmin writes in the eleventh chapter of his memoirs: 
‘*When I recall that first evening, I cannot separate the presence 
at our supper of that ghostly individual, whom none of us knew, 
from what Debienne and Poligny confided to us in their office.”’ 
What happened is as follows. 

Debienne and Poligny, sitting at the middle of the table, had 
not yet seen the man with the death’s-head when he suddenly 
began to speak. 

‘The dancers are right,’’ he said. ‘‘Poor Buquet’s death may 
not be as natural as people think.”’ 

Debienne and Poligny started, and both cried out at once, 
**Buquet is dead?’’ 


THE PHANTOM OF THE OPERA 31 


‘“*Yes,’’ replied the man, or the specter of a man. ‘‘This 
evening he was found hanging in the third cellar, between a flat 
and a set piece from Le Roi de Lahore.’’ 

The two managers, or rather ex-managers, stood up and stared 
at him strangely. They were more agitated than one would have 
expected them to be upon learning that a stagehand had hanged 
himself. They looked at each other. They had both tumed as 
white as the tablecloth. Finally Debienne motioned to Moncharmin 
and Richard, Poligny said a few words of apology to the guests, 
and the four men went into the managerial office. I will now 
quote from Moncharmin’s memoirs: 


Debienne and Poligny seemed more and more agitated, and it 
appeared to us that they had something to tell us but found it 
difficult to say. First they asked us if we knew the man at the 
end of the table who had told them about Joseph Buquet’s 
death, and when we answered in the negative their agitation 
increased still more. Poligny took the. master keys, from us, 
looked at them for a moment, shook his head, and advised 
us to have new locks made, in secret, for all rooms, closets, 
and objects that we wanted to keep securely closed. As he 
said this, he and Debienne looked so funny that Richard and I 
laughed, and I asked if there were thieves in the Opera. 
Poligny answered that there was something worse than thieves: 
the ghost. We laughed again, thinking they were playing 
some sort of joke on us that was meant to crown the eve- 
ning’s festivities. 

But finally, at their request, we became ‘‘serious’’ again; 
we were willing to humor them by taking part in their little 
game. They told us they would never have spoken to us about 
the ghost if they had not been ordered by the ghost himself to 
urge us to treat him courteously and grant him whatever he 
asked of us. Glad that they were about to rid themselves of 
the ghost by leaving the domain where he exercised his 
tyrannical rule, they had hesitated till the last moment to tell 
us about that strange situation, for which our skeptical minds 
were surely not prepared. But then the announcement of 
Joseph Buquet’s death had forcefully reminded them that 
whenever they had failed to comply with the ghost’s wishes, 
some fantastic or appalling occurrence had quickly brought 
them back to an awareness of their dependence. 

While these unexpected things were being told to us in a 


32 


Gaston Leroux 


solemn and confidential tone, I looked at Richard. In his 
student days he had been known as an accomplished practical 
joker, one familiar with all the many tricks and pranks de- 
vised by students, and the concierges of the Boulevard Saint- 
Michel could testify that he deserved his reputation. He seemed 
to relish the dish that was now being served to him. He did 
not miss a single mouthful of it, even though its seasoning 
was a little macabre because of Buquet’s death. He sadly 
nodded his head and, as Debienne and Poligny spoke, his 
face took on a look of dismay which seemed to say that he 
bitterly regretted becoming a manager of the Opera now that 
he knew there was a ghost in it. I could do no better than to 
faithfully imitate his attitude of despair. But finally, despite 
all our efforts, we could not help laughing in the faces of 
Debienne and Poligny. Seeing us pass without transition from 
deep gloom to insolent gaiety, they acted as if they thought 
we had gone mad. 

Richard felt that the joke had gone on a little too long. 

‘*But what does that ghost want?’’ he asked half seriously. 

Poligny went to his desk and came back with a copy of the 
instruction book for the management of the Opera. 

It begins with these words: ‘“The management of the Opera 
must give to performances of the National Academy of Music 
the splendor that befits the foremost French opera house,’’ and 
ends with Article 98: ‘“The manager may be removed from 
his position: 1. If he acts contrary to the provisions set forth 
in the book of instructions,’’ followed by the provisions in 
question. 

Poligny’s copy of the instruction book was in black ink and 
seemed to be exactly like the one we had, except that at the 
end a paragraph had been added in red ink, in strange, jagged 
handwriting that looked as if it might have been made with 
inked matchsticks; it suggested a child who was still learning 
to write and had not yet reached the point of joining the 
letters. That paragraph was a fifth provision added to the four 
in Article 98: “‘5. If the manager is more than two weeks late 
in making one of the monthly payments owed to the Opera 
ghost, payments to be made until further notice at the rate of 
20,000 francs each, totaling 240,000 francs per year.”’ 

Poligny hesitantly pointed to this last clause, which cer- 
tainly came as a surprise to us. 

“Is that all? Does he want anything else?’’ Richard asked 
with perfect composure. 


THE PHANTOM OF THE OPERA 33 


‘*Yes, he does,’’ replied Poligny. | 

He leafed through the instruction book and read aloud: 

‘*Article 63. Stage Box One, in the first right tier, will be 
reserved at all performances for the head of state. 

‘‘Ground-floor Box Twenty on Mondays, and First-Tier 
Box Thirty on Wednesdays and Fridays, will be placed at the 
minister’s disposal. 

‘‘Second-Tier Box Twenty-seven will be reserved every 
day for the use of the Prefect of the Seine and the Chief 
Commissioner of the Paris Police.”’ 

He then showed us another paragraph that had been added 
in red ink: 

**First-Tier Box Five will be placed at the disposal of the 
Opera ghost for all performances.”’ 

At this, Richard and I could only stand up, warmly shake 
hands with our two predecessors and congratulate them on 
that charming joke that showed that the old French sense of 
humor was as lively as ever. Richard even added that he now 
understood why Debienne and Poligny were leaving their 
positions: it was impossible to conduct the affairs of the 
Opera and contend with such a demanding ghost. 

‘*Of course,’’ Poligny replied without batting an eye. ‘“You 
don’t find two hundred and forty thousand francs growing on 
every tree. And do you realize how much it cost us to keep 
First-Tier Box Five reserved for the ghost at all performances? 
We couldn’t rent it and we had to give back the money that a 
subscriber had paid for it. It’s appalling! We don’t want to 
work to support ghosts! We prefer to leave.’’ 

**Yes, we prefer to leave,’’ echoed Debienne. ‘‘And let’s 
do it now.”’ 

He stood up. 

**But it seems to me that you’re very kind to that ghost,”’ 
said Richard. ‘‘If I had such a bothersome ghost, I wouldn’t 
hesitate to have him arrested.”’ 

‘“Where? How?’’ cried Poligny. ““We’ve never seen him!”’ 

**Not even when he comes to his box?’’ 

**We’ve never seen him in his box.’’ 

**Then why not rent it?’’ 

“Rent the Opera ghost’s box? Try it, gentlemen, just try 
it!” 

The four of us left the office. Richard and I had enjoyed 
ourselves immensely. 


4 


Box Five 


ARMAND MONCHARMIN WROTE such voluminous memoirs that one 
may wonder if during the rather long period of his comanagement 
he ever found time to concern himself with the Opera other than 
by describing what went on there. He did not know one note of 
music, but he was on close terms with the Minister of Public 
Education and the Fine Arts, he had done a little newspaper 
reporting on the variety theater, and he had a rather large fortune. 
He had considerable charm, and no lack of intelligence, since, 
having decided to become a silent partner in the Opera, he had 
chosen the man who would be the most effective manager: he 
had gone straight to Firmin Richard. 

Firmin Richard was a distinguished composer and a man of 
honor. Here is the description of him published in the Revue des 
thédtres at the time when he became a comanager of the Opera: 


Firmin Richard is about fifty. He is tall and broad, without 
an ounce of fat. He has distinction and an imposing presence. 
His complexion is florid; his thick hair comes down rather 
low on his forehead and is cut short; his beard matches his 
hair; his face has a slight look of sadness that is tempered by 
his forthright gaze and charming smile. 

Firmin Richard is a very distinguished composer, highly 
proficient in harmony and counterpoint. The principal charac- 
teristic of his compositions is grandeur. He has published 
some highly regarded chamber music, piano music—sonatas 
and minor pieces—full of originality, and a collection of 


34 


THE PHANTOM OF THE OPERA 35 


melodies. Finally, his Death of Hercules, performed at the 
concerts of the conservatory, has an epic inspiration reminis- 
cent of Gluck, one of his venerated masters. Though he 
adores Gluck, however, he loves Piccinni none the less; he 
takes his pleasure where he finds it. Full of admiration for 
Piccinni, he pays homage to Meyerbeer, he delights in 
Cimarosa, and no one has a better appreciation of Weber’s 
inimitable genius. Finally, as to Wagner, Monsieur Richard is 
not far from claiming to be the first person in France, and 
perhaps the only one, to have understood him. 


I will stop my quotation here. It clearly implies, I believe, that 
while Firmin Richard liked nearly all music and all composers, it 
was the duty of all composers to like Firmin Richard. To end this 
quick sketch of him, I will say that his character was of the kind 
known as dictatorial; that is, he was very bad-tempered. 

During the first days that the two partners spent in the Opera, 
they were absorbed in the pleasure of feeling themselves the 
masters of such a vast and splendid enterprise, and they had no 
doubt forgotten about the curious, outlandish story of the ghost. 
Then there was an incident that proved to them that the joke—if 
that was what it was—had not yet ended. 

Richard arrived in his office at eleven that morning. His 
secretary, Monsieur Rémy, showed him half a dozen letters that 
he had not opened because they were marked ‘‘Personal.’’ One 
of them immediately caught Richard’s attention, not only be- 
cause the envelope was addressed in red ink, but also because it 
seemed to him that he had seen that handwriting before. He 
quickly realized that it was the red writing in which the book of 
instructions had been so strangely completed. He recognized its 
clumsy, childish appearance. He opened the envelope and read: 


My Dear Manager, 

Please excuse me for disturbing you during this precious 
time when you are deciding on the fate of the best performers 
in the Opera, renewing important engagements and conclud- 
ing new ones, and doing all that with a firmness of purpose, 
an understanding of the theater, a knowledge of the public 
and its tastes, and an authority that I, with my long experi- 
ence, have found simply astounding. I know what you have 
done for Carlotta, La Sorelli, and little Jammes, and several 
others whose admirable qualities, talent, or genius you have 


Gaston Leroux 


discerned. (You know to whom I am referring by those last 
words: it is obviously not to Carlotta, who sings like a yowl- _, 
ing cat and should never have left the Ambassadeurs or the 
Café Jacquin; or to La Sorelli, whose success is primarily 
corporeal; or to little Jammes, who dances like a calf in a 
meadow. Nor is it Christine Daae; her genius is unques- 
tionable, but you have carefully excluded her from any im- 
portant creation.) 

You are, of course, free to manage your operatic affairs 
as you see fit. However, I would like to take advantage of 
the fact that you have not yet thrown out Christine Daae by 
hearing her tonight in the role of Siebel, since the role of 
Marguerite is now forbidden to her, after her triumph the other 
day. I ask you not to dispose of my box tonight or any 
other night, for I cannot end this letter without admitting to 
you how unpleasantly surprised I was recently when I came 
to the Opera and learned that my box had been rented, at the 
box office, by your order. 

I did not protest, first because I dislike making a scene, 
and also because I thought that your predecessors, Debienne 
and Poligny, who were always very gracious to me, must have 
neglected to tell you about my little idiosyncrasies before 
they left. But in response to my request for an explanation, 
they have just given me an answer that proves you are ac- 
quainted with my book of instructions, and therefore that you 
are showing intolerable disrespect for me. If you want us 
to live in peace, you must not begin by taking my box away 
from me! 

Having made these little remarks, I ask you to consider 
me your humble servant, 


Opera Ghost 
This letter was accompanied by a clipping from the personal 


column of the Revue thédtrale, which contained the following: 
*‘O. G.: R. and M. are inexcusable. We told them, and left your 


book of instructions in their hands. Best regards.”’ 


Firmin Richard had scarcely finished reading the letter when 


the door of his office opened and Armand Moncharmin came in, 
holding a letter exactly like the one his colleague had received. 
They looked at each other and laughed. 


“‘The joke is still going on,’’ said Richard, ‘and it’s not funny.”’ 
**What does this mean?’’ asked Moncharmin. *‘Do they think 


THE PHANTOM OF THE OPERA 37 


we're going to let them have a box forever because they used to 
be managers of the Opera?’’ 

“Pm in no mood to let them keep up their hoax much 
longer,’’ declared Richard. 

**It’s harmless,’’ remarked Moncharmin. ‘‘ Actually, what is it 
they want? A box for tonight?’’ . 

Richard told his secretary to send Debienne and Poligny tick- 
ets for First-Tier Box Five, if it was not already rented. 

It was not. The tickets were sent immediately. Debienne lived 
at the corner of the Rue Scribe and the Boulevard des Capucines; 
Poligny, on the Rue Auber. The two letters signed Opera Ghost 
had been mailed from the post office on the Boulevard des 
Capucines. Moncharmin noticed this as he was examining the 
envelopes. 

“You see!”’ said Richard. 

They shrugged and expressed regret that men as old as Debienne 
and Poligny should still be amusing themselves with such child- 
ish pranks. 

**At least they could have been polite!’’ said Moncharmin. 
*‘Did you notice what they said about us with regard to Carlotta, 
La Sorelli, and little Jammes?’’ 

**My friend, those men are sick with jealousy! Think of it: 
they even went so far as to pay for an advertisement in the 
personal column of the Revue thédtrale! Do they really have 
nothing better to do?’’ 

*“By the way, they seem to have a great interest in little 
Christine Daae. . . .”’ 

**You know as well as I do that she has the reputation of being 
Virtuous!”’ 

*‘Reputations are often undeserved,’’ said Moncharmin. ‘‘I 
have the reputation of knowing all about music, but I don’t know 
the difference between the treble clef and the bass clef.’’ 

**‘Don’t worry, you’ve never had that reputation,’’ Richard 
assured him. 

He then ordered the doorkeeper to show in the singers and 
dancers who had been pacing back and forth in the hall for the 
past two hours, waiting for the managerial door to open, the door 
behind which they would find glory and money—or dismissal. 

The whole day was spent. in carrying on discussions and 
negotiations, in signing and breaking contracts. You may there- 
fore be certain that that night—the night of January 25—our two 


38 Gaston Leroux 


managers, tired from a hard day of anger, scheming, urging, 
threats, protestations of love or hatred, went to bed early without 
even having the curiosity to glance into Box Five to see if 
Debienne and Poligny were enjoying the evening’s performance. 
The Opera had not come to a standstill after the former manag- 
ers’ departure and Richard had had some necessary work done 
on the building without disrupting the schedule of performances. 

The next morning, he and Moncharmin found a card from the 
ghost in their mail: 


My Dear Manager, 

Thank you. Delightful evening. Daae exquisite. Choruses 
need work. Carlotta a magnificent and commonplace instru- 
ment. Will soon write to you about the 240,000 francs or, to 
be exact, 233,424.70: Debienne and Poligny sent me 6575.30 
francs for the first ten days of this year’s allotment, since 
they ceased to be managers on the evening of the tenth. 

Kind regards, 
QO. G. 


They also received a letter from Debienne and Poligny: 


Gentlemen, 

We thank you for your kindness, but you will readily 
understand that the prospect of hearing Faust again, no 
matter how pleasant it may be to former managers of the 
Opera, cannot make us forget that we have no right to 
occupy First-Tier Box Five. You know to whom that box 
belongs exclusively, for we had occasion to speak of him to 
you when we reread the book of instructions with you one 
last time. We refer you to the last paragraph of Article 63. 

We remain, etc. 


‘‘They’re beginning to get on my nerves!’’ Richard said vio- 
lently, snatching the letter from Moncharmin’s hands. 

That night, First-Tier Box Five was rented. 

When Richard and Moncharmin came to their office the next 
day, they found a report from the supervisor of the Opera, 
written the night before, concerning events that had taken place 
that same night in First-Tier Box Five. Here is the essential 
passage of that brief report: 


THE PHANTOM OF THE OPERA 39 


Twice this evening, at the beginning and in the middle of the 
second act, I had to call in a policeman to eject the occupants 
of First-Tier Box Five, who had arrived at the beginning of 
the second act. They made a scandalous disturbance with 
their loud laughter and inane remarks. There were cries of 
**Quiet!’’ all around them, and the audience was beginning to 
protest when an usher came to me. I went into the box and 
said what was necessary. The occupants talked stupidly to me 
and seemed not to be in their right mind. I warned them that 
if the disturbance was repeated, I would be forced to make 
them leave. As soon as I was gone, I again heard their 
laughter, and protests from the audience. I went back with a 
policeman who made them leave the box. Still laughing, they 
said they would stay in the hall until their money was re- 
funded. Finally they became calm and I let them go back into 
the box. The laughter immediately began again, and this time 
I had them permanently ejected. 


‘‘Send for the supervisor,’’ Richard said to his secretary, who 
had been the first to read the report, and had already written 
notes on it in blue pencil. 

The secretary, Monsieur Rémy, was always shy in front of the 
managers. He was an intelligent, elegant, distinguished young 
man of twenty-four who had a thin mustache, dressed impec- 
cably—which at that time meant that he wore a frock coat during 
the day—and received a salary of twenty-four hundred francs a 
year, paid by the managers. He examined the newspapers for 
useful information, answered letters, distributed box reservations 
and complimentary tickets, scheduled appointments, talked with 
people waiting to see the managers, went to see sick performers, 
looked for understudies, and corresponded with department heads, 
but his main duty was to act as a lock on the managers’ door. He 
could be discharged at a moment’s notice without compensation, 
because he was not recognized by the administration. 

Rémy had already sent for the supervisor. He told him to 
come in. 

The supervisor stepped into Richard’s office, looking a little 
uneasy. 

‘*Tell us what happened,’’ Richard said brusquely. 

The supervisor stammered something and referred to his report. 

‘““Why were those people laughing?’’ asked Moncharmin. 


40 Gaston Leroux 


‘‘They must have had a good dinner with plenty of wine, sir, 
and they seemed to be more in a mood for horseplay than for 
listening to good music. As soon as they went into the box, they 
came out again and called the usher. She asked them what they 
wanted. One of the men said, ‘Look in the box—there’s no one 
in it, is there?’ The usher said, ‘No,’ and the man said, ‘Well, 
when we went in, we heard a voice saying someone was there.’ ”’ 

Moncharmin could not look at Richard without smiling, but 
Richard did not smile back. He himself had too much experience 
in that sort of thing not to recognize, in the story that the 
supervisor was innocently telling him, all the marks of one of 
those malicious practical jokes that first amuse their victims, 
then finally enrage them. 

To curry favor with Moncharmin, who was still smiling, the 
supervisor felt that he should smile also. It was an unfortunate 
smile! Richard gave him a withering look. The supervisor in- 
stantly tried to take on a suitably dismayed expression. 

‘‘But when those people arrived,’’ asked the formidable Rich- 
ard, ‘‘was there anyone in the box?’’ 

‘‘No one, sir, no one at all! And there was no one in the boxes 
on either side of it, no one! I swear the box was empty, I’d stake 
my life on it! That’s why I’m sure the whole thing was only a 
joke.”’ 

‘*And what did the usher say?’’ 

‘‘Oh, as far as she’s concerned, it’s simple: she says it was the 
Opera ghost. What else can you expect?’’ 

The supervisor laughed, but again he realized he had made a 
mistake, because as soon as Richard heard ‘‘she says it was the 
Opera ghost,’’ his face, already somber, became furious. 

‘‘I want to see that usher!’’ he said. ‘‘Immediately! Have her 
brought here! And send all those people away!”’ 

The supervisor tried to protest but Richard closed his mouth 
with a menacing ‘‘Quiet!’’ Then, when his unfortunate subordi- 
nate’s lips seemed closed forever, Richard demanded that he 
open them again. 

‘‘What is this ‘Opera ghost’?’’ he finally brought himself to 
ask, with a grunt of displeasure. 

But the supervisor was now unable to say a word. By desper- 
ate gestures, he gave Richard to understand that he did not 
know, or rather that he did not want to know. 

‘*Have you seen the ghost yourself?’ 


THE PHANTOM OF THE OPERA 41 


The supervisor vigorously shook his head. 

“*So much the worse for you,’’ Richard said coldly. 

The supervisor’s eyes opened so wide that they seemed ready 
to pop out of their sockets and, regaining his power of speech, 
he asked the manager why he had spoken those sinister words. 

‘““Because I’m going to settle accounts with everyone who 
hasn’t seen him!’’ Richard answered. ‘‘Since he’s everywhere, 
it’s intolerable that he’s not seen anywhere. I want my employ- 
ees to do their work and do it right!’ 


5 


Continuation of “Box Five” 


HAVING SAID THIS, Richard paid no further attention to the 
supervisor and began discussing various matters with his 
administrator, who had just come in. The supervisor thought 
he could leave. He was backing slowly, ever so slowly, 
toward the door when Richard saw what he was doing and 
nailed his feet to the floor with a thunderous “‘Don’t move!’’ 

Rémy had sent for the usher, who also worked as a con- 
cierge on the Rue de Provence, near the Opera. She soon 
came in. 

**What’s your name?’’ asked Richard. 

**‘Madame Giry. You know me, sir: I’m the mother of little 
Giry, or little Meg, she’s also called.”’ 

She said this in a gruff, serious tone that briefly gave him 
pause. He looked at her (faded shawl, worn-out shoes, old 
taffeta dress, soot-colored hat) and it was obvious from his 
expression that he had never met her before, or had forgotten 
meeting her, and that he did not know her daughter either. 
But that famous usher’s pride was so great that she imagined 
everyone knew her. (I believe that giries, a familiar word in 
backstage slang at the Opera, came from her name. An 
example of its use: If one singer wants to accuse another of 
repeating idle gossip, she will say to her, ‘‘All that is nothing 
but giries.’’) 

*‘No, I don’t know you,’’ Richard finally declared. ‘‘But 
I'd still like you to tell me what happened last night to make 
you and the supervisor call in a policeman.”’ 


42 


THE PHANTOM OF THE OPERA 43 


**Yes, I wanted to talk to you about that, sir, so we won’t 
have the same unpleasantness as Monsieur Debienne and 
Monsieur Poligny. At first, they wouldn’t listen to me either, 
and...” 

‘I’m not asking you about all that,’’ Richard interrupted. 
‘*T’m asking you to tell me what happened last night.”’ 

Madame Giry turned red with indignation. No one had ever 
spoken to her in such a tone before. She stood up as though to 
leave, gathering the folds of her skirt and shaking the feathers 
of her soot-colored hat with dignity; but then she changed her 
mind, sat down again, and said haughtily, ‘‘What happened 
was that someone annoyed the ghost again!’’ 

At this point, seeing that Richard was on the verge of an 
angry outburst, Moncharmin intervened and took charge of 
the questioning. It soon revealed that to Madame Giry it was 
perfectly natural for people to hear a voice proclaiming that 
there was someone in a box where there was no one. She 
could explain that phenomenon, which was not new to her, 
only as an act of the ghost. No one ever saw the ghost in his 
box, but everyone could hear him. She had heard him often, 
and they could take her word for it, because she never lied. 
They could ask Monsieur Debienne and Monsieur Poligny, 
and everyone else who knew her, including Isidore Saack, 
whose leg had been broken by the ghost. 

‘‘Is that so?’? asked Moncharmin. ‘‘The ghost broke poor 
Isidore Saack’s leg?’’ 

Madame Giry’s eyes showed her amazement at such igno- 
rance. Finally she consented to enlighten those two unfortu- 
nate simpletons. The incident had happened in the time of 
Debienne and Poligny, and, like the one of the night before, 
it had happened in Box Five during a performance of Faust. 

Madame Giry coughed and cleared her throat, acting as if 
she were preparing to sing all of Gounod’s score. 

‘*Here’s how it was, sir,’’ she began. ‘‘That night, Mon- 
sieur Maniera and his wife—they’re gem dealers on the Rue 
Mogador—were sitting in the front of the box. Behind Madame 
Maniera was their close friend, Isidore Saack. Mephistopheles 
was singing.’’ And Madame Giry sang: ‘‘ ‘Thou, who here art 
soundly sleeping.’ Then, in his right ear (his wife was sitting to 
his left), Monsieur Maniera heard a voice saying, ‘Ha, ha! Julie 
isn’t soundly sleeping!’ (His wife’s name is Julie.) He turned his 


44 Gaston Leroux 


head to the right to see who had said that. No one! He rubbed his 
ear and said to himself, ‘Did I dream it?’ Mephistopheles was 
still singing. . . . But maybe I’m boring you gentlemen.”’ 

‘No, no, go on.”’ 

‘*You’re very kind,’’ she said with a grimace. ‘‘As I said, 
Mephistopheles was still singing.’’ She-sang: ‘‘ ‘You whom | 
adore, refuse not, I implore, a sweet kiss ...’ And again 
Monsieur Maniera heard the voice in his right ear: ‘Ha, ha! 
Julie won’t refuse a sweet kiss to Isidore!’ He turned his head 
again, but this time in the direction of his wife and Isidore. 
And what did he see? Isidore had taken Madame Maniera’s 
hand from behind and was kissing it through the little opening 
in her glove, like this, gentlemen.’’ She kissed the patch of 
skin left bare by her silk glove. ‘‘Well, you can be sure the 
three of them didn’t just sit there quietly after that! Bang! 
Bang! Monsieur Maniera, who was big and strong like you, 
Monsieur Richard, gave a pair of healthy slaps to Isidore 
Saack, who was thin and weak like you, Monsieur Moncharmin, 
with all due respect. There was a big commotion. People in 
the audience were shouting, ‘He’s going to kill him!’ Finally 
Isidore Saack was able to get away.”’ 

‘‘Then the ghost didn’t break his leg?’’ asked Moncharmin, 
a little miffed at the poor impression his physique had made 
on Madame Giry. 

‘‘He did break it, sir,’’ she replied a little scornfully, for 
she had sensed his offensive intention. “‘He broke it on the 
big staircase, which Isidore Saack was going down too fast, 
and he broke it so badly that it will be quite a while before the 
poor man can go up those stairs again!”’ 

‘‘Was it the ghost himself who told you what he whispered 
in Monsieur Maniera’s right ear?’’ Moncharmin asked with 
the seriousness of a judge, feeling that he was being very 
comical. 

‘**No, sir, it was Monsieur Maniera who told me. So.. . 

‘‘But you have talked with the ghost, haven’t you, my 
good lady?’’ 

‘“Yes, just as sure as I’m talking with you, my good 
gentleman.”’ 

‘And when the ghost talks to you, what does he say?’’ 

‘*He tells me to bring him a footstool.’’ 

As she solemnly spoke these words, Madame Giry’s face 


93 


THE PHANTOM OF THE OPERA 45 


became as cold as the red-veined yellow marble, known as 
Sarrancolin marble, in the pillars supporting the great staircase. 

Richard, Moncharmin, and Rémy, the secretary, all laughed 
at once; but the supervisor, having learned from experience, 
did not join in their laughter. Leaning against the wall and 
nervously toying with the keys in his pocket, he wondered 
how all this was going to turn out. The haughtier Madame 
Giry became, the more he was afraid that Richard’s anger 
would return. And now, facing the managers’ laughter, she 
dared to become threatening, positively threatening! 

‘Instead of laughing at the ghost,’’ she said indignantly, 
‘‘you should do like Monsieur. Poligny—he found out for 
himself.’’ 

‘‘Found out about what??? asked Moncharmin, who had 
never been so amused before. 

‘The ghost! I’m trying to tell you ... Listen.’” Madame 
Giry suddenly became calm, feeling that this was a crucial 
time. “‘I remember it as if it were yesterday. They were 
performing La Juive that night. Monsieur Poligny had de- 
cided to watch it, alone, in the ghost’s box. Mademoiselle 
Krauss was a huge success. She’d just sung, you know, that 
thing in the second act.’’ She began singing softly: ‘* ‘I 
want to live and die with the man I love, and death itself 
cannot...’ ”’ 

‘“Yes, I know the part you mean,’’ Moncharmin said with a 
discouraging smile. 

But she went on singing, swaying the feathers of her 
soot-colored hat: ‘‘ ‘Let us away! Here below, the same fate 
awaits us...’ ”’ 

‘“Yes, yes, we know the part you mean!’’ Richard inter- 
rupted impatiently. ‘“What of it?’’ 

‘Well, it was just when Léopold says, ‘Let us flee!’ and 
Eléazar stops them by asking, ‘Where are you going?’ It was 
just then that Monsieur Poligny—I was watching him from 
the back of the next box, which was unrented—it was just 
then that he stood up straight and walked out, stiff as a statue. 
I barely had time to ask him, like Eléazar, ‘Where are you 
going?’ But he didn’t answer me and he was pale as a corpse! 
I watched him go down the stairs. He didn’t break a leg, but 
he walked as if he were in a dream, a nightmare. He couldn’t 


46 Gaston Leroux 


even find his way—and he was paid to know the Opera from 
top to bottom!”’ 

Having expressed herself in this way, Madame Giry paused 
to judge the effect she had produced. 

Her story about Poligny had made Moncharmin shake his 
head. 

“All that still doesn’t tell me how, and in what circum- 
stances, the Opera ghost asked you for a footstool,’’ he 
insisted, looking her straight in the eyes. 

“Well, after that night, the ghost was left alone and no- 
body tried to take his box away from him. Monsieur Debienne 
and Monsieur Poligny gave orders that it was to be left free 
for him at all performances. And every time he came, he 
asked me for his footstool.”’ 

**So here we have a ghost who asks for a footstool... . 
Your ghost is a woman, then?’’ 

*‘No, the ghost is a man.’’ 

**How do you know?’’ 

““He has a man’s voice, a beautiful man’s voice. I'll tell 
you what happens. When he comes to the Opera, he usually 
arrives in the middle of the first act. He knocks three times on 
the door of Box Five. The first time I heard those three 
knocks, when I knew very well there was nobody in the box, 
you can imagine how puzzled I was! I opened the door, I 
listened, I looked—nobody! Then I heard a voice say to me; 
‘Madame Jules’—my late husband’s name was Jules—‘will 
you please bring me a footstool?’ It knocked me flat, if you 
know what I mean, sir. Then the voice said, ‘Don’t be afraid, 
Madame Jules, I’m the Opera ghost.’ It was such a kind, 
friendly voice that I almost did stop being afraid. I looked in 
the direction it came from. The voice, sir, was in the first seat 
on the right in the first row. Except that I didn’t see anyone 
there, it was exactly as if someone were sitting in that seat 
and talking to me, someone very polite too.’’ 

‘*Was the box to the right of Box Five occupied?’’ asked 
Moncharmin. 

‘‘No. Box Seven, and Box Three on the left, were still 
empty. The performance had just started.’’ 

**And what did you do?’’ 

“I brought the footstool, what else? He didn’t want it for 


THE PHANTOM OF THE OPERA 47 


himself, of course. It was for his lady. But I never heard or 
saw her.”’ 

What! The ghost had a wife now? Moncharmin and Rich- 
ard raised their eyes from Madame Giry to the supervisor, 
who was standing behind her and waving his arms to catch 
their attention. He sadly tapped his forehead with his finger to 
indicate that Madame Giry was crazy, which made Richard 
decide to dismiss a supervisor who kept a lunatic in his 
service. She was still talking, totally absorbed in her ghost; 
now she was praising his generosity. 

‘‘At the end of the performance he usually gives me at least 
two francs, sometimes five, sometimes even ten, when it’s been 
several days since the last time he came. But now that they’ve 
started annoying him again, he hasn’t been giving me anything.”’ 

‘“*Excuse me, my good woman’’—Madame Giry angrily shook 
the feathers of her soot-colored hat at this persistent familiarity— 
‘“‘but how does the ghost go about giving you that money?’’ 
asked Moncharmin, who was born curious. 

‘‘He just leaves it on the railing of the box. I find it there, 
along with the program I always bring him. Sometimes I also 
find flowers in the box, a rose that must have fallen from his 
lady’s bodice. He must come there sometimes with a lady, since 
they once left a fan behind.”’ 

‘*Ha, ha! The ghost left a fan? And what did you do with it?”’ 

‘*I brought it back to him the next time, of course.”’ 

At this point the supervisor’s voice was heard: 

‘*You didn’t follow the rules, Madame Giry. I’m going to fine 
you.”’ 

Then Richard’s deep voice: 

“*Shut up, you fool!’’ 

**So you brought back the fan. Then what happened?’’ 

‘*They took it away, sir. I didn’t find it after the performance, 
and in its place they left a box of the tart candy I like so much. 
That’s another way the ghost shows his kindness.’’ 

‘Thank you, Madame Giry. You may leave now..”’ 

When she had left, after bowing to the two managers respect- 
fully, though with the dignity that never abandoned her, Richard 
told the supervisor he had decided to dispense with that old 
lunatic’s services. Then he told him that he could also leave. 

The supervisor declared his devotion to the Opera and left. 
The two managers sent word to the administrator that he was to 


48 Gaston Leroux 


give the supervisor what was owed to him and remove him from 
the payroll. Then, when the secretary had left and they were 
alone together, they each expressed a thought that had come to 
both of them at the same time: they should go and have a look at 
Box Five. 

We will soon follow them there. 


6 


The Enchanted Violin 


BECAUSE OF INTRIGUES that will be examined later, Christine Daae 
did not immediately repeat, at the Opera, the triumph she had 
won at the famous gala performance. She did, however, have an 
opportunity to appear at the Duchess of Zurich’s house, where 
she sang the best pieces in her repertory. And here is what the 
great critic X.Y.Z., who was among the distinguished guests, 
wrote about her: 


When one hears her in Ambroise Thomas’s Hamlet, one 
wonders if Shakespeare came from the Elysian Fields to 
rehearse her in the role of Ophelia. It is true that when she 
dons the starry diadem of the Queen of the Night, Mozart must 
leave his eternal abode to come and hear her. But no, there is 
no need for him to leave, because the strong, vibrant voice of 
the magic interpreter of his Magic Flute comes to him, easily 
rising up to heaven, just as she herself went effortlessly from 
her thatched cottage in the village of Skotelof to the gold and 
marble palace built by Monsieur Garnier.* 


But after the evening at the Duchess of Zurich’s house, Chris- 
tine did not sing again in society. She rejected all invitations and 
all offers of paid appearances. Without giving a plausible expla- 
nation, she refused to appear at a charity concert in which she 
had previously promised to take part. She acted as if she were no 


*Jean-Louis-Charles Garnier, known as Charles Garnier, was the architect 
of the Paris Opera. (Translator’s note.) 


49 


50 Gaston Leroux 


longer in control of her life, as if she were afraid of a new 
triumph. 

She learned that, to please his brother, Count Philippe de 
Chagny had made very active efforts on her behalf with Mon- 
sieur Richard. She wrote to thank him and also to ask him to say 
nothing more about her to the managers of the Opera. What 
reason could she have for such strange behavior? Some attributed 
it to boundless pride, others to divine modesty. But theatrical 
people are not overburdened with modesty. Actually, the most 
likely explanation may have been fear. Yes, I believe that Chris- 
tine Daae was frightened by what had just happened to her, and 
that she was as much surprised by it as everyone around her. 
Surprised? On second thought, no. I have one of her letters 
(from the Persian’s collection) relating to the events of that time, 
and having reread it, I will not write that she was surprised or 
even frightened by her triumph, but that she was terrified. Yes, 
terrified! ‘‘I don’t recognize myself anymore when I sing,’’ she 
said. Poor, sweet, pure child! 

She showed herself nowhere, and Viscount Raoul de Chagny 
tried in vain to meet her. He wrote to her, asking permission to 
come and see her. He was beginning to lose hope of receiving an 
answer when one morning she sent him the following note: 


I have not forgotten the little boy who went into the sea to get 
my scarf. I cannot restrain myself from writing that to you, 
now that I am about to go to Perros-Guirec to carry out a 
sacred duty. Tomorrow is the anniversary of my father’s 
death. You knew him, and he liked you. He is buried there 
with his violin, in the graveyard that surrounds the little 
church, at the foot of the hill where we played so often when 
we were children, and at the edge of the road where, a little 
older, we told each other good-bye for the last time. 


When he had read this note from Christine Daae, Raoul 
consulted a railroad timetable, quickly got dressed, wrote a few 
lines for his valet to take to his brother, and jumped into a cab, 
which brought him to the Montparnasse station too late for the 
morning train he had hoped to catch. 

He spent a dreary day. His good spirits did not return until 
evening, when he boarded a train. All during the trip he reread 
Christine’s note, smelled its fragrance, and revived sweet images 


THE PHANTOM OF THE OPERA 51 


of his younger days. He spent that whole abominable night on 
the train in a feverish dream that began and ended with Christine. 

Dawn was breaking when he got off the train at Lannion and 
took the coach to Perros-Guirec. He was the only passenger. He 
questioned the driver and learned that on the evening of the day 
before a young woman who seemed to be a Parisian had gone to 
Perros and taken a room at the Inn of the Setting Sun. It could 
only have been Christine. She had come alone. Raoul sighed 
deeply. He would be able to talk with her undisturbed in that 
solitude. He loved her so much that it almost took his breath 
away. That tall young man who had traveled around the world 
was as pure as a virgin who has never left her mother’s house. 

As he came closer to her, he devoutly recalled the story of the 
little Swedish singer. Many of its details are still unknown to the 
public. 

Once upon a time, in a small town near Uppsala, Sweden, a 
peasant who lived there with his family cultivated his land during 
the week and sang bass in the choir on Sunday. This peasant had 
a little daughter to whom he taught the musical alphabet before 
She knew how to read. Perhaps without realizing it, Christine 
Daae’s father was a great musician. He played the violin and was 
regarded as the best fiddler in all of Scandinavia. His reputation 
spread far and wide, and he was always called on to play for the 
dancing at weddings and feasts. 

Mrs. Daae, an invalid, died when Christine had just begun her 
sixth year. Her father, who loved only his daughter and his 
music, immediately sold his land and went off to seek glory in 
Uppsala. He found only poverty there. 

He then returned to the country and began going from fair to 
fair, playing his Scandinavian melodies while his daughter, who 
never left him, listened enraptured or sang to the accompaniment 
of his violin. After hearing them both at the Limby fair one day, 
Professor Valerius took them to Géteborg. He maintained that 
the father was the world’s best fiddler and that the daughter had 
the makings of a great singer. He provided for her education and 
training. Wherever she went, everyone who met her was capti- 
vated by her beauty, her charm, and her eagerness to speak and 
behave well. Her progress was rapid. 

When Professor Valerius and his wife had to go and live in 
France, they took Daae and Christine with them. Mama Valerius 
treated Christine as her daughter. As for Daae, he began wasting 


52 Gaston Leroux 


away from homesickness. In Paris he never went out. He lived in 
a kind of-dream that he kept alive with his violin. He spent hours 
at a time in his room with Christine, playing his violin and 
singing softly. Sometimes Mama Valerius came to listen to them 
through the door, sighed heavily, wiped tears from her eyes, and 
tiptoed away. She too longed to see her Scandinavian skies 
again. 

Daae seemed to regain his vigor only in summer, when the 
whole family went to stay at Perros-Guirec, in a part of Brittany 
that was then all but unknown to Parisians. He liked the sea there 
because, he said, it had the same color as the sea at home. He 
often played his most plaintive melodies on the beach, and he 
claimed that the sea fell silent to listen to them. 

After much pleading with Mama Valerius, he persuaded her to 
indulge a whim of his: at the time of religious processions, 
village festivals, and dances, he went off with his violin as he 
had done in the past, and he was allowed to take Christine with 
him for a week. The villagers never tired of listening to them. 
They would pour a year’s worth of harmony into some little 
hamlet, refuse a bed at the inn that night and sleep in a barn, 
lying close to each other on the straw, as they had done when 
they were so poor in Sweden. 

They were properly dressed, refused the money that was 
offered to them, and took up no collections. The people around 
them did not understand the conduct of that fiddler who roamed 
the countryside with that beautiful child who sang like an angel 
in heaven. They were followed from village to village. 

One day a boy from Paris, on an outing with his governess, 
made her walk a long way because he could not bring himself to 
leave the girl whose sweet, pure voice seemed to have chained 
him to her. They came to the edge of a cove that is still called 
Trestraou. In those days, nothing was there but the sky, the sea, 
and the golden shore. And on this particular day there was a high 
wind that blew away Christine’s scarf and dropped it into the 
sea. She reached out for it, with a cry, but it was already floating 
on the waves. Then she heard a voice say, ‘“Don’t worry, Ill go 
and get.it for you.”’ 

She saw a boy running as fast as he could, despite the shouts 
and indignant protests of a worthy lady dressed in black. He 
plunged into the sea fully dressed and brought Christine’s scarf 
back to her. He and the scarf were, of course, sopping wet. The 


THE PHANTOM OF THE OPERA 53 


lady in black seemed unable to calm hetself but Christine laughed 
heartily and kissed the boy. He was Viscount Raoul de Chagny, 
staying for the moment with his aunt at Lannion. 

During the summer he and Christine saw each other nearly 
every day and played together. At his aunt’s request, conveyed 
by Professor Valerius, Daae began giving the young viscount 
violin lessons. And so Raoul learned to love the melodies that 
had enchanted Christine’s childhood. 

They both had the same kind of calm, dreamy soul. They 
loved stories, old Breton tales, and their main pastime was to go 
and ask for them from door to door, like beggars. ‘‘Do you have 
a little story to tell us, please?’’ they would ask, and it was very 
seldom that they were not ‘‘given’’ one. Where is the old Breton 
grandmother who, at least once in her life, has not seen goblins 
dancing on the moor in moonlight? | 

But their greatest delight came when, after the sun had sunk 
into the sea and the great peace of twilight had settled over the 
countryside, Christine’s father sat down with them on the road- 
side and in a quiet voice, as if to avoid frightening the ghosts he 
evoked, told them the beautiful, gentle, or terrible legends of the 
Northland. They were sometimes as charming as Andersen’s 
fairy tales, sometimes as sad as the lyrics of the great poet 
Runeberg. When he stopped, the two children would say, ‘‘More!’’ 

There was one story that began this way: “‘A king was sitting 
in a little boat on one of those calm, deep lakes that open like 
shining eyes among the mountains of Norway.’’ And another 
that began: ‘‘Little Lotte was thinking of everything and nothing. 
She floated in the golden sunlight like a summer bird, wearing a 
crown of flowers on her blond curls. Her soul was as clear and 
blue as her eyes. She was affectionate to her mother and faithful 
to her doll, she took good care of her dress, her red shoes, and 
her violin, but what she liked most of all was to listen to the 
Angel of Music as she was falling asleep.’’ 

While Daae was saying these things, Raoul looked at Chris- 
tine’s blue eyes and golden hair. And Christine thought that little 
Lotte was lucky to hear the Angel of Music as she was falling 
asleep. There were few of Daae’s stories in which the Angel of 
Music did not appear, and the two children questioned him 
endlessly about that angel. He claimed that all great composers 
and performers were visited by the Angel of Music at least once 
in their lives. Sometimes they were visited in the cradle, as little 


54 Gaston Leroux 


Lotte was, and that was why there were child prodigies who at 
the age of six played the violin better than men of fifty, which 
was extraordinary, as anyone would admit. Sometimes the angel 
came much later, to children who were disobedient and would 
not learn their lessons or practice their scales. And to children 
who did not have a pure heart and a clear conscience, he never 
came at all. No one ever saw him, but he made himself heard to 
those predestined to hear him. It often happened when they least 
expected it, when they were sad and disheartened. Then they 
suddenly heard heavenly harmonies and a divine voice, and they 
would remember it all their lives. People visited by the angel 
were left with a kind of flame burning inside them. They felt a 
pulsation unknown to other mortals. And they had the privilege 
of not being able to touch an instrument or open their mouths to 
sing without making sounds so beautiful that they shamed all 
other human sounds. Those who did not know that these people 
had been visited by the Angel of Music said that they had 
genius. 

Little Christine asked her father if he had heard the angel. He 
sadly shook his head, then looked at her with his eyes shining 
and said, ‘“You’ll hear him some day, my child. When I’m in 
heaven, I'll send him to you, I promise.”’ 

It was during this time that he began coughing. 

Autumn came and separated Raoul and Christine. 

They saw each other again three years later; by then, they 
were no longer children. Again it happened in Perros, and the 
impression it made on Raoul was so strong that it stayed with 
him ever after. Professor Valerius was dead, but Mama Valerius 
had remained in France to take care of her financial interests. 
Christine and her father had also stayed. They still sang and 
played the violin, sharing their harmonious dream with their 
beloved benefactress, who now seemed to live only on music. 
Raoul returned to Perros on the chance of finding them there, 
and went into the house where they had lived. 

He first saw old Daae, who stood up from his chair with tears 
in his eyes and embraced him, saying that he and Christine had 
never forgotten him. And in fact hardly a day had gone by when 
she did not mention Raoul to him. The old man was still talking 
when the door opened and Christine briskly walked into the 
room, looking exquisite and carrying steaming tea on a tray. She 
recognized Raoul and put down the tray. A light blush spread 


THE PHANTOM OF THE OPERA 55 


over her charming face. She stood hesitantly and said nothing. 
Her father looked at the two young people. Raoul stepped toward 
her and kissed her, and she did not avoid his kiss. She asked him 
a few questions, graciously did her duty as a hostess, picked up 
the tray, and took it away. 

She then went out to take refuge on a bench, in the solitude of 
the garden. Feelings that she had never known before were 
stirring in her adolescent heart. Raoul came to join her and they 
talked till evening, ill at ease. They had both changed so much 
that they scarcely knew each other now, and each felt that the 
other had acquired a weightier personality. They were as cau- 
tious as diplomats and talked about things that had nothing to do 
with their budding feelings. 

As they were taking leave of each other, at the edge of the 
road, he politely kissed her trembling hand and said, ‘‘I’ll never 
forget you!’’ Then he left, regretting those impulsive words, 
because he knew that Christine Daae could not be the wife of 
Viscount Raoul de Chagny. | 

As for Christine, she went back to her father and said, ‘‘Doesn’t 
it seem to you that Raoul isn’t as nice as he used to be? I don’t 
like him anymore!”’ 

She tried to stop thinking about him. Finding it hard to do, she 
fell back on her art, which took up all her time. Her progress 
was amazing. Those who listened to her predicted that she would 
become the world’s greatest singer. 

But then her father died and it seemed that in losing him she 
had also lost her voice, her soul, and her genius. She still had 
enough of all that to enable her to enter the conservatory, but 
only just enough. She did not distinguish herself in any way; she 
took her classes without enthusiasm and won a prize to please 
old Mama Valerius, with whom she continued to live. 

The first time Raoul saw Christine at the Opera, he was 
charmed by her beauty and by his recollection of sweet images 
from the past, but he was rather surprised by the negative side of 
her art. She seemed detached from everything. He returned to 
listen to her. He went backstage, waited for her behind a flat, 
and tried in vain to attract her attention. More than once he 
accompanied her to the door of her dressing room, but she did 
not see him. She seemed, in fact, to see no one. She was 
indifference personified. Raoul suffered from it, because she was 
beautiful; he was shy and did not admit to himself that he loved 


56 Gaston Leroux 


her. Then came the overwhelming revelation on the night of the 
gala performance, when the heavens opened and an angelic voice 
was heard on earth, enrapturing everyone who heard it and 
enthralling Raoul’s heart. 

And then there was that man’s voice heard through the door— 
‘‘Christine, you must love me!’’—and no one in the dressing 
room. ... 

Why had she laughed when he said to her, just as she was 
opening her eyes, ‘‘I’m the little boy who went into the sea to 
get your scarf’’? Why had she not recognized him? And why had 
she written to him? 


That hill was so long, so long. . . . Here was the crucifix at 
the crossroads, then the deserted moor, the frozen heath, the 
motionless landscape under the white sky. The windowpanes 
rattled and seemed about to break. The coach made so much 
noise, yet moved so slowly! He recognized the cottages, the 
farmyards, the slopes, the trees along the way. Here was the last 
bend in the road; after it, the coach would dash down to the sea, 
the broad Bay of Perros. 

So she was staying at the Inn of the Setting Sun—not surpris- 
ing, since it was the only inn. Besides, it was very comfortable. 
He remembered listening to good stories there, long ago. How 
his heart was pounding! What was she going to say when she 
saw him? 

The first person he saw when he walked into the smoke- 
darkened dining room of the inn was Mama Tricard. She recog- 
nized him, greeted him, and asked what had brought him there. 
He blushed and said that, having come to Lannion on business, 
he had decided to go to the inn and tell her hello. She wanted to 
serve him lunch, but he said, ‘‘In a little while.’’ He seemed to 
be waiting for something or someone. 

The door opened and he leapt to his feet. He was not mis- 
taken: it was Christine! She stood before him, smiling, evidently 
not at all surprised to see him. Her face was as fresh and pink as 
a shade-grown strawberry. Her breathing was a little hurried, no 
doubt because she had been walking rapidly. Her bosom, which 
contained an honest heart, heaved gently. Her eyes—clear, light- 
blue mirrors, the color of the still lakes that lie dreaming in the 
far north—calmly showed him a reflection of her guileless soul. 


_.GoW uses p.noA SUIT} ISI 9} 
}I SUM SOUNSUYD ‘WoOOI SuIssoyp INOA Ul ow MBS NOA UOT A,, 
"UNTY S)EILLII 0} UNSoq Apeorye pey pue wry porzznd 
yeuM sem Jey) GABA {Pes ssoupuoy Joy sem AYM Ing ‘joofqns 
yey} UO pey savy YSU oY Jqnop Aue poAowal soAd JOY UT MES 
oY SSOUPUOJ pes OY], “I WOIJ Jez “UITY 0} OISOY SeM OYS JEU} [90J 
JOU PIP oy “IOAOMOP{ “SPAA HT JeUAK APOBXO pres savy JOU plnod 
oy Ysnoy) ‘WY 0} [eINjJeUUN pousss yey) oOpNyye Joy UI SUI) 
-OUIOS SEM SIO], “AYOdS WY} Jo JOUJIOU ‘sJUSWIOU MJ B IO7 
., A[OUO] pue pes sem sys UdYM UIT) B 
Je JOY YM PUSHY sp] Joy SAeY 0} peys oq pfnoys oYyM [IS pT] 
B ‘UOY} SEM J [IIS OPI] OY} SIT NOA 0} B)0I1M J pure ‘ysed OY) OJUT 
you Je} OUI YOO) JYSIU IJOy}IO oY} WOO SuIssoIp AUT UT soURTeodde 
uappns NOX ‘Nod 0} UdyWM sAPy },upfnoys J sqAeyp] ‘WYSnow} | 
yeym ains Ayyeod jou uly ‘Ayjemoy °° * ‘uayo os ul poutof Joey 
Aul yor ‘soures pooyp[iyo Ino Joquiowias p.noA yysnoy I,, 
GOA SAOT [ Jey) ZULMOUY OsTe ynoyIM yey? Mouy No prnos 
MOP ‘SOLO 0} Aliny p,J Jey) pue ‘JUdIOJJIPUl OWI SALI] },UP[NOM 
Joye] INCA MOUY NOX “aloy oWIOD OU syeU pIp Nod 3Ng,, 
“AJOACIS pordor 
ays ,,‘SSUI} YONS OUI j]9} 0} SIO SWIOD NOA oyPU! },UPIp J,, 
. SNoLes AIOA SI SI} ‘ouNSHYD ‘ysney] 3,U0q,, 
‘JUOI pjog e& dn ynd 0} ‘paysne] oys puy 
_ jpueuy Aur ‘pura mo Jo no aq 
JSNUI NOX,, “SOIOA UTeLIIOUN Ue UT ples sys ,,{au DAC] NOZ,, 
“TOTY 
woly Aeme poyoo], pue ey Joy JO s}OOI oy) 0} poysniq sys 
<<GO 
JNOYWM IAT] },UedD J Jey) pue ‘ouNSYyD ‘NoA SAO] [| Iu) NOA 
[[9} OSTe JouJeJ INOA piq,, ‘poyse oy UsY} ‘ooUDTIS B SBA DIO], 
., Joye} peop Jood Aur ‘1oyjey AWA,, 
"yoeq JW MBIP JOU PIP SYS “UMO sty Jo 
y0q UT puLY PHI] Joy SuPyE) ‘Tnoey poyse ,.{NOA Po} OYAA,, 
_, SUI0D P,NOA yey} Plo} seM |] ‘SOA “YOINYS oy} ye ‘os ou 
PO} BUOIUIOS *sseUI WoT, youq ouIVd [ USYM JOY NOA puUly p,J 
yey) SurI[ooy & pey | “ou osTIdIns },USOOp JI PUB SUIOD 9A,NOZ,, 
“ayods 
aunsiiy7 Ajjeuiy ‘Aeme poddiys Apoolosip pue polis pres] 
BUI, “OUIT} SUC] & JOJO YOd Je POYOO] SUNSLIYD pur [nory 
‘Apoqg 3unoA [njooess Joy Jo Soul] snoTUOUTIeY 
oy} pue ysIeM JOpUs[s Joy Sulpeoaor ‘uodo sem 3e0d MJ JOY 


LS VaidO AHL JO WOLNVHd HHL 


UI pres pue ssoujUTey SuIssed Joy SUTeDIDAO OYS nq ‘poyojazs}no 
SULIe SI YIM JOY pJeMO} poysNI [Noey ‘[[eJ 0} ynogGe pauses 
pue pojodsejs oyg ‘soAd Joy puNnose pouljoy ssuu yep pue 
dOvJ S,OUTISLYD Joao peoids iojjed A[yeop eB ‘spJoM asoy) IV 
ce ¢ OUI SAO] ISNU NOX, “pIesy J,, 
‘ULIe SEY JO O8 JO] SYS ‘Wye AfasueNS SuIWIODNg 
<.GJeoy AOA PIp YM, 
., SUIAIOAD plvoy [ puy “nod dAoy J Bsnedaq ‘sox,, 
<.¢JOOp 9) 3B SuTUS}sI] oI0M NOK OS,, 
‘uewoMm SUNOA SUTYOO]-[FeJZ we YONs UI payoodsns sAPY OU PROM 
uO Jey) YsUONs Be YIM YW poddus pue ue siy pazies sys 
<< <iPBPOP WJ] pue ‘Thos Au Nod daes 
J Wstuo]y jnoA Joy ATUO Bus [, ‘pres nok Woy 0} sUO 3U],, 
. ¢inoge Sunyey Nod ose ues Joyo 
ywuM,, ‘A[pider suryyeoig ‘poyse oys ,.{sutAes nod ose yeyA,, 
_,jUeU IdYJO 94) YIM OUOTe oq P[ROD NOK yey} OS ‘saX,, 
<< SARI] 0} Poyse | UO 9y} O1,.NOA dOUTS ‘NOA Udaq DARY ISNUT 
,, “oU0} AST Ue UT ples sUNSLIYD , “OW poroyj0q suODUIOS J],, 
. jUaTy yng suOAUL UI paso 
-I9JUI 9Q P[Nod noA yey} MOYS 0} JUBM } UPIp NOA sUOSUIOS ‘NOA 
poroyj0g sduasoid SsOyM UWOOI SUISsoIp INOA UI aUOSUIOS sem 
aay} asnedeq sem IJ jNOA JO} Jomsue [],J ‘Woy? ‘IWS ITV,, “14 
-BIOSIU PUR POSUDOUI “pres oy , “OW PoJoMsuUe } UdAPY NOZ,, 
‘A[SNOIPO SARYyoq 0} UONeUIUIA}ap 
DOJO SIY UI JsISIod 0} UeY} UOTENIIS SNo;MoIpI yey) Jo no AeM 
Joy}O OU PUTZ prnods sy ‘pdms aq 0} JJoswIIY SuIspne “oaJoU! [Ns 
wy pososue ATUO SUOIM OY) UI seM OY BUIMOUY Ing ‘WY papudy 
-JO pey OYM SSoIjsIU JO OfIM kB 0} SUTYeods ‘s}YSI poziUsoOde1 
iM JOAOT JO puegsny & oyI] popuNos pey oy ‘peajsuy ‘uo 
-OAOp pue SAO] JO ApUAS Joy 0} yeads 0} popusjur pey sy Voy 
Joy YIM pouenb 0} poywem oy JI se SuNoe A[Uoppns Jesu pury 
0} ‘poystuojse sem 00} oF “A[dor OU apeW puUe JUOWYsTUO)se UT 
WIY 38 POYOOoT oYs Jey} YsIey OS seM UOTsoNb sity} Jo su0) sy], 
..c4ysney nod pip Aym pue ‘ow MOUY },Upip Nod JI se Jomsue nok 
pip Aym ‘eos ou) WoOIy yor Jseds INOA YSnoIg | UaYM su ay) JO 
noA SUIputUal ‘saouy MOA Je ‘WOOT SuIssop INO UT oT MES NOK 
uoym ‘usy) Ing,, ‘SdI] sty Sutsmd ‘pres [noey , jos }ySnoy) T,, 
<< 98B}S 34} UO OS|e puke ‘x0q S.JOyIOIG 
InoA Ul SOUT} [eJaAds NOA Uses Apeolye P,J,, ‘pres sys ..‘ON,, 
“OTT 0} MOY MOU JOU PIP 94S 


XNOdaT U0jSY 9c 


yey) [NOS s.Joyjey Joy Jo osodal oy) JOJ pres ssveu e pey pey 
OYs Jey) powses] pey oH {Seg 0} youq suod Apvolye sys },upey 
Ay ‘asJoy} SuIJOU SUIOp JORJ UI SBM pu ‘SOLIOg UI Op 0} d10UI 
ZuIyjOU SAY 0} potlioes SYS DdUIS puY {SeLIOWeW poreys Aue 
os pey Ady}? o04M opIsAUNOS Jey) JOAO JopueM 0} WIY UjIM 
03 pue sile}suMOp oD sys },UpIp AUAA “JOY YM ATINYSI[ap os 
puads 0} pedoy prey sy eu} OW 9Y} SULINP sUTISLIGD INoyIM 9q 
0} SuTARY 32 Ports Ajdoap sem oY “YouNT oavy 0} pasnjor OH] 
PALicorey 
Joy Ul Butheys oys sem AUAA {ABML UNI oUTSLIYD pey AYA 
"WIIY WO UOTeULTdxe osIdoId AIOA B PopuLUOp sARY P[NoM 
ay ‘SdI0A SITY WOIZ ATUO MOUY SY UU oY} ‘UR yey) UO Spuey SITY 
usy103 SAeY prnoo sy FI puy jAddeyun os sem [noey Joog {Mou 
ysnf yosdn os sul000q ays pip AYM voy], ZATSNoOIAqQ ‘sursuUts 
Joy 0} AjUo Surazor useq A[snolAqo pey sys nq “[nos Joy 
UdAIS pey sys yey) SuIAes Aq palomsue pey ayg “SAT JO SpIom 
6} UD}SI] 0} pey sowWNoUOS JosUIs SuUNOA [NTNeD B yey) BJeMEUN 
9q 0} se payeorjstydosun os j0U sem oY pUe ON{IA Joy UONEyNdar 
yeas & pey sys Mouy oH ‘AjInd Joy IqQNoOp jou pIp oy ‘IOAQMOY 
‘presyJoAo pey oy yey Jo oyids uy jJoI00s yueyoduTT AIDA B 
9q ISNUI 41 ‘JaIONs Joy PAJBAOOSIP pey oY Jey) SuTUJesT Je UOTIOUO 
YONs UMOYS pey SYS OUIG “SUIOA PoywoYyJOAO sIY UT SuUIqqoI} 
[jas sem Asnoyeof ‘our sures oy) ye ‘Inq ‘Ayes sTy Joj FfOswWTY 
poyouoidas ApJOIG SY ‘WOOL JOY Ul PoYoo] poureusor ays oT A, 
‘AvIeSIp UI JJO uel pue 
wy wo Aeme poddiys sys jnq sue STY Ul Joy aye} 0} Poll} 9H 
« [[NO’Y,, 
. OUNSHYD),, 
‘syooyo AIOAT 
Joy UMOP perfor ‘sTeo) Aavoy Om} ‘spread OM) PUR STOW SUTeDOqG 
soXd Joy USYy) ING “‘PoulIEye sem Off ‘PRU! PoUlIoes JSOW]TE SYS IU} 
ZULISARMUN PUP SSUdJUT OS SPM 9ZBS IOF{ “UOTIOUIA o[qQeqLIOSapUl 
YIM [Nowy ye poyxoo] pue yesy Joy Joao puey Joy ynd ounsiyD 
-< « U8TU0} ydom sjaSue ay], (IS & YONs PoAtooal I9A0 JoJodwe ON 
“nok yuey) [ pue ‘pyryo Aur ‘[nynneaq AISA SI [NOs InoZ, “Iomsue 
wWiTy presy | ‘{nos INO WHY UdAIZ p,NOA WTY Po} NOA UOyAA,, 
-<g MOUY 0} ZUIAP UJ 99S NOK },UBD,, ‘poyeodor aYs ,,jU0 O4,, 
‘uonovas Joy Aq pojzznd ‘Apueysoy Joy ye poyxoo, oH 
«¢ POY 
nok SUIUJAIDAS OUI [[2} ‘UO OD,, ‘9dI0A sIqQIpne Aporeq ‘MOT B 


6S VaddO FHL JO WOLNVHd FHL 


nof ][9} 0} pura Aut dn opeul 9A,J ‘[noey ‘our 0} udISTT,, 
‘puey poaojs Joy YM 7 

Poso]d ays 3nq yeods 0} ynou! sty pousdo oF ‘oUNSUYD sem I] 

<<IY8TUO} SUIOD [ITM SUITGOS at YUIB NOX oq,, 
QD10A 
B preoy oy pue ‘puNos & SUTyLUI yNOWIM aloy) sUIOD MOYSUIOS 
SUIARY “WTY opisoq SuIpueIS sem WIOJ pouljop-[jom W “poyEys 
AjUappns uay) ‘UONdET[OIAI JeY) JB Po|Us aF{ “wWaY) Jo AueU UdaS 
SAvY 0} POUTTe[O ‘payysisreou spVIT e sem OYM ‘oUTISTIYD INQ ‘soko 
poo’ pey ay Yysnowp uovs ‘surjqo3 Aue uses J9A9U pey oF "OSII-0} 
uedaq UOOU! oY} Udy s0UEP sUTTqOS ay) ses 0} [[eEHYSu ye s1O|P 
SIND USO peY SUNSLYD op] pue sx] “JOOW sJe[Osap ‘paylosap 
oY} JOAO SULIOpUBM dJOM SaLIOUIOUT pue syYySnoyp sty [Ty “plod 

OU) [99J JOU PIp ay Inq smopeyYs pIsuy ul podojpoauo sem jnoey 
“BUTUDAD SEM I] “UMOP 
Polp puIM oY) UsY], “UOZOY sy} UO Yeans uemM e ATUO oUIeDAq 
pue ‘poy ‘dn aves Ayfeury yorym ‘Wy 3qyAep Jo syueuuror Ayueos 
oY) Joye SUISeYS “YoRaq ay) SsOIDB A[SNOASTYSSIUI PIdeI PUM SUT, 
"BOS BY} SUTYOO]IIAO JOOUI ay) JO Opa oy} ye UMOP Jes pue ‘adojs 
oy} poquiljs “preAaaess ay) Yo] SY ‘s|[NYs ou) Jo says jeusajo 

oy) Aq poarouun ‘uayy, “Joye s,oUNSIYD Joy poXeid jnovy 
“WIdY} Spiseq sojid yons savy [INS soyomys 
uo}oIg plo Aue ‘aytd suo yey) Jo s[pprut au) UI pousdo ANsaA 
94} JO JOOp ay} pue “j[Inq Us9q peYy ANSOA oy} Jo sTTem sy) YIU 
UO TOHEpUNo; oy) WO} 0} pallisas “WOU UI9MJOq SoUOg pousTyM 
WIM “SYSIQ OF] SMOI pasodiodns url paoeyd ‘syjnys ou, ‘MIA 
ured Ur so1jIpa siqeoeUI sJOYM oy} YO] WU) BTM UI) JO YIoMJoU 
e Aq ATuo pray ‘yomyYys oy) Jo [fem oy) Isuree dn pojid arom 
S[[NYs puke suo}Z[oys JO sparpuny :sasdioo sz Jo oulos paysolal 
pey yey) punois sy) Wor “PpoMoTJIoAo ‘00} ‘I[ “aay aIayMAIOAS 
sem Yeap Joy ‘peap oy) Suowe ajI] op] alam ‘MOUS ay) UT SUT 
“WIOU JVY} POWOO]q Savy 0} Palses YOTYM ‘sasol pal snojnoeIU 
SSOUL “JOUIM UOJ OY} JO Ie ADI oY) polly soueiseyy Woy], 
‘PUNOIS Poud}TYM-MOUS 9} 0} POMOTJIOAO PUB dUO)SQUIO) oITURIS 
Of} PAJIAOS JeY} SIOMOTJ PalOfOo APYsiiq oy) Aq WIY 0} poyeoIpuT 
Sem SuLyses Useq peYy oY SARIS oY) JO UONRIO] aU) ‘alay], ‘asde 
oy} purysq sem oy [HUN ‘suoNdrosur oy) Sutpeal ‘soavss oy) 
suowe suoye poyyem pur a)e3 sy pousdo af ‘yomyYo ay} popunas 

“INS Jey) PIBASALIS oY) 0} USM [NOVY ‘pausyeoysIp pue pes 
“SARIS STY Je pue YyoINYS 
sf] oy) ut Surxeid smoy Suo] yueds pey sys yey) pue ‘SuTWIOW 


XnOsF] U04SV) 09 


JOOU payesep 9Y) JOAO SSoUyTEp oy) Usp SNE ‘poysney, fnoey 
_,(00) Hf IesYy Phos no yy) pouses] | Uoym SuruJOW sTIy 
SPM | posiidms moy curlseul ued noA os ‘ed10A Sty Ivsy pnoo 
OUI Inq 9UO OU JYSNOY) [ ,“SUI SAO] JsNUT NOX, “OU 0} pres OYM 
QUO oY} SPM SF{ ‘WOO SuIssop AUT Jo JOOP oY} Je poUusjst] no& 
QTM OW 0} Sune} oUO oY} SEM oY ‘JYSTU JOyIO BYP “SAX,, 
 GOISNJ] JO osuy oy} prvoy 9A _J,, 
.. [hory ‘Nox, 
« 698]9 OUM,, 
., UNTY preoy S OUM 
guo ATUO 94} 10U Wy pue “UTY pIvoy 9A] DIOYM S yey} “SoX,, 
‘OYdd SSO[PUTA B Sy] poywodar oy ,,{WOOI SUISSOIp InoA U],, 
‘JYUSIU OU) UT MOpeYs 
ssofuonow e& A[UO MOU sem pu uty WoIy Aeme sdoys Moy B USYe} 
pey sys Ing “UIeIg YoIs Jood Joy Jo yWsuaNs sup [fe YIM Poas{[oq 
SUS YOM Ul UOISIA PIM e& SUIQLIOSep oTeUNT B SOM sys jt 
sv JO ‘Surpooys Surmjowlos pres ysnf pey oys jr se ‘kjaatsuoyoidde 
Joy ye poyxoo, oy yey) Ayisuowur JepNZuIs yons ypIM oyods oyg 
., Aep AIQAO WOSSI] B SU DAIZ 0} SOWIOD OY SIOYM 
sjyeyy, ‘woor Suissaip Ku ui,, ‘ApUUojoSs pres oys ,,°SoX,, 
«, SUNSHYD 
‘oisn, JO josuy oY} pleoy 9A,NOX “souo} Yons noA 743ne} 
SABY P[NOd YpIes UO JoyoRS) ON ‘ABM OUIOS UT POATOAUT ST WOABoY 
ssofUN ‘a[OeITUT JO OS sUIOS S,dI04} ssoTUN WYSIU JoyJO otf} PIP 
nok se Zuls },ue> Zuroq UeUNY & JY) UROL 0} I JoIdIOVUT J., 
‘ssouyJep oy) Jo oyds ur ‘soXo sy peor 0} 3uIAN ATUO sem 
ays Ng ‘WIY Ssry 0} SuIod sem oys JYSNoY} sy IVY} STY 0} 9SOTD OS 
govy oyed Joy Suraouws ‘poyse oys ,.{7ey} youdJayUT NOA Op MOH,, 
“OISNJA] JO [aBuUY OU) Aq PdIISIA Usaq peYy IYS Jey} SMOU oY} 
yoo} oy ory WIM wyes oy} Aq postidins sp] B pauiess SYS 
‘yduinLy 389}e] Joy 
WIM Joye] Joy Jo Alouloul oy} Suneroosse ATsnord sem sys yey} 
Zuruinsse ‘AJOAvI3 pres ueur Buno oy) ,,“oABY NOA OINs UL.],, 
_OISH, JO jasuy ou Aq poysIA useq 9A] PUB UOABODY UT ST 
oujey AW ‘[noeY ‘TOM ,“eSTwWod | ‘nod 0} WHTY puss [LJ “Uorvoy 
Ul WJ USYAA, ‘OUl 0} ples oY JY) SIOY OSTe SeA\ HT pUe “SOX,, 
_, SUIT) ISIJ OU} OJ WIY NOge sn pfo} JOyIEJ 
mo< yey} soy sem I YUM) | PUY,, “Pres oy ,.jOP J 9SIN0d JO,, 
GoIsnyy Jo asuy sy} JO pueda] oy) JoquIsUtol 
no oq,, :8umpeoiq AyNoysIp savy 0} SurUIoes “ponuUoS sys 
‘poyrem oF] ‘paroawnb so10a Jay] ,,"SnoLies AoA “SnOrtas BUTY}OWIOS 


19 ViddO FHL JO WOLNVHd dH 


AUIY}-UdAZTD Jnoge sem 3] “A[MOTS AJOA ‘Xq JUOM SINOY st} OS 
“SSoutseoun JO pury 
ZUISSANSIP ‘ppo ue [20} WY spel yt yey) “aAIsnja OS ‘snojngou 
OS ‘OSHIP OS SEM , pUNOIE,, Jey) pue ‘IOy punozv se Joy fo yonu 
OS JOU JYZNOY) dH ‘WY pesnyuos ATYZnoI0W) pey sUNSIYD WIM 
UOHPSISAUOD OSUBTS SIF] “ABS 0} UWITY JOJ pyey useq sARY p[nom 
I Znoge Suryury) ay sem yeyM puy {INoge ZuryUIy) sys sem 
yey “Jou jy {doojse sys sep, {SuIop ouNSLYD sem yey “JOOP 
}XOU WOOI oy} WOIZ sUTeD pUNOS ON ‘dos[s 0} pal sy ‘poq UI 
“USY} “pedl 0} Pel sy ‘WOOI sIy Ul ‘WooTs u pasunjd ‘osoddns 

om Avur noX se ‘pue ouoye ‘apisaxy oy) Aq JoUUIp ae [noey 
"yes uo puads 0} sXep Jo Joquinu uTeyII0 e AyUO Wat) 
UdATS PeY POH UsYyM SuULIoydIq AffIs uO WIN ajseM 0} a]dood 
sunoX Joy sem yr Ayd & JeyM Jnoge ZaLOyNUI pue sIapjnoys J0y 
suissniys ‘heme poyyem oys ‘fouenb ,s1oao] & USs0q pey sat) Sur 
-yUTy} “UsY], “sNOLas AIDA 9qQ JOU ISNU SSOUYDIS Joy ‘[[T sem oyUs 
Ji yey) Afsnonsiquie posomsue Jodsoyuul ponyeu-poos sy], ‘TTI 
SBM OYS JI Poyse 9H “JOUUIP JOJ UMOP SUIOD JOU ppnom sys SurXes 

Joye WOO Jay 0} dn suos jsnf pey aunsuyD yey) poured] oY 
"SSOUPRS PU ‘JUSUIOSEINODSIP ‘SSOULTEOM YIM 

POW]POYMIOAO UUT 9Y} 0} Youq yUOM oF ‘poseaddesip sys puy 
¢ {SUT OW SAV] jouOCTe OU DAROT,, ‘IaSUe JOIST} WIM WITY 0} 

ples sys jnqg ‘Joy Joye uel op ‘AeMe uel pue AIO B palayn sys 

.< NOA Uo ayof ev SurXeid st suOaWOS yup | ‘ouNsUIYD,, 

‘aseInoo siy [[e dn pouowuns [noey 

< CUSY} “TIIM 4908 NoX,, 
., UOOI SUISSaIp INO UI dO 

ou punoj | pue Joop oy} uedo pip | ‘aT NOA Jay *“MOUY T,, 
<<Jo0Y} SUO OU SBM doy) UES 
oaey P.nok ‘Joop ay} pousdo p.nok J] “SddI0A S$ ,UdU WIM WOOT 
suissomp Aut ut dn jyasAul jnys },uop | pue ‘AuSey> op yuNodsIA 
‘UBWIOM 91qQeIOUOY UB UL] {9AoT[9q NOK Op JY AA j[9S[2 DUOSWOS 
OJUT posueYyS saey 0} UWISES NOX jpuowy s.souyey Au ‘oyeuAeyd 

pooypyrys Au ‘nox {[noey ‘our 0} yey Aes nod ued Moq,, 
‘OpNIe JWoIosT][9q S,SUNSLIYD JO JNSoI & se pasnzUos SuTUIOD0q 

SJOM SJYSNOY} VsoymM ‘[NoeY pres ..‘asinod Jo ‘sok * * ° IT? 
cGOOIOA 

Sueur B prvoy nod yup nok og Z3ury8ney, nok ore AyM,), 
‘SUIMYST] poyseyy ‘apU0S os ATLeUTpIO ‘saX9 Jap “UoTssaldxe 
sfHsoy B YM WY 0} PouIN} sYg ‘UOOW SUIS ay} Jo SAvI ysIT] 
oy) Ul podojaaua osom ojdoad Bunok om) oy) pue poyjedsip sem 


XnNOdaT] U0jSY 79 


‘QUI OZIUZOOAI pue ‘OU 90S ‘pUNOJe WIN) 0} Joy JO} SBM 
poem J [Ty ‘sdojsjooy Aw Jo punos oy} apJjnur 0} OJJo Aue 
ZuLyeU NOY Joy Joye JUOM | INg ‘OU “IIS ‘ON *JOMSTIV 
{asoyo noX Ae Tensnun oy) Ut WoOI Mod Woy 
UMOP sUIOD NOA ses SRC S[[OSIOW Spe] PI *WOHSENd 


(OST ‘ou JUSUIND0q) 
UONeSNSSAUT By} JO SpJOOoI oY) UT poquosueNn sem AUOUINSe} 
sty MOY SI SoH ‘sOUSg Ul WSU yey) ynoqe AuseyD op yuNOd 
-SIA uonsonb 0} uoIsed90 peYy ploy ATessTuUMOD s01fOg ‘10jnd 
-9s0Jg d1]Qng ay) Jo uowedaq oy) Aq UO}Se pornbear viedo oy 
JE SJUSAS D1Zey UoyM ‘Joyel Sysom Moy YW {pousddey pey yey 
‘WWIY SAOge 99vj BUI 
-ULIBYD §,dUNSIYD Mes OY USYM ssousNoIssuOD paureSal Aja}o[d 
-wi0d pue seXfa sity pousdo uoos aff ‘Sasues sTY 0} yoeq jnoey 
ZuLiq 0} po Ajsnorxue ‘day s,sodsoquur oy) WIM “pue sirejs 
-UMOP UBI OYM ‘SUNSEYD 0} SMOU SY} SATS 0} JUOM AloyeIPSUTUNT 
OYS ‘soled Ul YOINYS sp] sy) Jo Jeye YysIY oy) Jo sdays ou 
UO SuIAT punoy us0q pey SY Jey) pousesy ays pue ‘oAT[e UL} pesp 
SIOUI ‘UdZOIF JTeY J9Y 0} WSnoq sea oY USYM ZUTUIOU! XOU Ot} 
popuno}se aJojalou} sem UBUIOM poos ol], “JodooxUUT oy} 0} UMOTY 
-UN ‘UMOP QUIT[D 0} WIY poyqeus pue sue juoHeduN s.[nory 
0} soyouRsg Sit NO poy [yea ou Isulese SuIMoIs con W “YSIY 
AIOA JOU SEM UNS BUNNIES dy) JO UUT BY} JO JOO] puodses OY], 
“prey 
poyosop oy} UO SuIpuRys SEM ULIOJ OPYAL S,OUTISLTYD “I pousodo 
pue ‘MOpUIM SIq 0} PoLLMY ‘WOO. sTy OJUT YoRq Jom [Noy 
‘QOUdTIS SEM aJOY} USy) pue ‘pasojo pue pouiedo sea JWOIpIOJEM 
oy) Suroevy Joop oy) ‘siTeIsuMOG] “SdI0A S,JodooyuUT oy) sem I 
_ AOY BY} VSO] },U0G,, :d0Us}Uas UO ATUO INO oyeUI 0} a[qQe SBA 
oH ‘Apides 3uisIoAuo0d SSOIOA OM} preoy SY Ajuoppng ‘sa\sTueq op 
JOAO poues, sy ‘JOY SAOGY “UMOpP JUOM pue SITES oY} poyoval 
ous ‘ey ou) Suoye Suraow Ajsnonnes UOJ sTYM S,oUTsSLYD 
Mes ‘JyUSTTUOOU Jo AvI v UT ‘pue Jefe Joop sty poysnd ApUSs oF 
{daojse sem SOLIdg JO UMO} SOYA oY} USyM 
}USIU JO SW yey} Je Bulos sys sem sIoyA\ ‘SoSUTY Ss} UO UIN 
JOOp S sUTSLIYD presy oy USYM popunod jesY STH “MOU 10U pIp 
OH {yeu Joy Apeoy ‘powem oy ‘SuryjAue Joy Apeor ‘uy, ‘punos 
B OFLU! 0} JOU jnJored Zutaq ‘pessarp 303 Appornb oy ‘Surop sem oY 
yEYM Jnoge ZuTuoseal ynoyM {dN [THs SuUNSUYD seAA “WOOI X9U 
ay} wos sdays}00j OADINY ‘IYSI] preay APOUTSTp oy USyM J43Tu ye 


€9 VaddO SHL IO WOLNVHd SHL 


-JOp[IMoq Ul puNore [eB psyxooy | ‘peoy Aur pestel ose | usyy], 
‘WE posnes sary pfnod yeym polopuom | pue omjdes jo yOs 
SUIOS UI 9q 0} POSES SYS “UOOU! oY) PIeMO} SUE Joy osTeI 
pue Ays ou 32 dn Yoo] Joy Mes | UoyM sIeo Au ur SuTSuUTT [Ns 
SBM SYONS YOM) OY], “JYSIUpIUA Yons yoopo oy} usy) isn 
“Sutkeld ueseq pue ‘J[asIoy Possos ‘MOUS OU) UT I[IUy 3YS 
‘Jay puryoq sdays Maj B Poo}s | SABIZ s JoyJeT Joy ye poddo}s 
sys USYM PUB “IO QINSIP 0} JOU paploep | ‘s}yYZnoy) snord 
Joy Ul poqiosqe A[o}o[duI09 useq savy JsNuUI ays Ing “3905 AUT 
Jopun SUTYOUTID sem MOUS aU} OsNedEq ‘Joy pulysq SuTyeM 
ow pseoy 304 },Upey ays yey) postidins Adults sem | “wes 
Aud ][@ pouresar | yey) OUI 0} [eINJeU Os pourses Wt pue ‘oALId 
S Joyjey Joy Je MOA ® [JNJ 0} papusyur sys yYy3noy) | ‘pred 
-OABIS OY} OUI OF Joy MES [| UDYM INQ ‘WY43IU ayy JO 3 [ppruw 
oy} Ul “Jey SY] INO O8 see s[ASIOWIapeP] aes 0} pojqnon 
A[doop usaq P,] ISH} JW ‘POXe[os pue papeoyrespo sem | *y 
LOUIT Jey) Je PUI Jo ae}s MOA sem JY *O 
‘URNSHYD SurAatoq & WT “ON “YW 
_ gsnonnsiodns nod ary *~ 
.< SUTYIOU SYSIOM yeY) ISI v,, ‘arom 
punoy 9q pfnod YS] Yons yey} UMOUY 3,Upey | pue WSU 
J pIeADABIS B UL U99Q IOAD P,J SUIT} ISI OY} SEM I] “‘PlOO AIOA 
pue Jeop> AJoa ‘[nyyNeaq AIOA SeA\ J] “JYZIU WYSLIq e YONS Udes 
JOAOU 9A] “JYSIPUOOU oy) UI SuT[ZzZep seM YOMYS su], ‘oul 
pue seed a[estowopey] Aq pue sossoid oy) Aq 3s¥0 souo om 
SIOM SMOPRYS ATUO OY], "SOSSOIO Itsy Joy }d90xo ‘mous ayy Aq 
POISAOD arom ASU], “ASY} [[VUIS ae Sou0}SOABIT OY] ‘ON “W 
{2U0ISOARIS B PUTYOq SUIPIY UI0q GARY SUCSUIOS },UP[NOD “~) 
‘JOYS USAS I apeul pure ISI Ss} payopjal 
punos oy} UO MoUs oy} pue ‘ZurUTYs sem UOOU su], "WUIY Uses 
savy P[NOM | ‘oloYy} Usaq PeY SUODUIOS J] ‘aU OU MES | *Y 
{AIo}OUISD OY} UL oUOAUR aIDy) seAA *O— 
‘Te 38 see s][9sIowopey] astidins 
0} Wdas }1,UpIp Wt Ysnoy) ‘our postidins yey) pue ‘sox “Ww 
{uado aye3 oy) sem °C 
‘preAdavi3 
oy} JO aye3 oy) 0} owed oYs BuO, sJOJog ‘SuTuUNI SOUP 
SEM SYS “Iojsej OF Joy Opeul pey yYM sem I SuLeoy yey) ou 
0} pelises II pue “jYysTUpru 0O} JoeNnb v yonys ysnf pey yoo]9 
yomyo oy ‘peor oy} dn Aypider Suryyem uesoq pue jrey 
oy} Yo] ATuITed sYg ‘o1oy 1,UdIOM J JI se poyoe pue oul IeoYy 
0} JOU pollises sys Ing “ow Jo AYyYOMUN seM Joy UO SuTAds 
pure Joy SUIMOT[OJ sem J Aem oy} yey) poztear ysnf p.] osnesoq 


XNOLIT U04{SV) 


OU) [Je polices vapr yey], “soURTeG Sj PpoAONsop pure j ysurese 
poduing Ayjeyuaprooe savy ysNU souog Jo ofId sy) purysq SuTpTYy 
ULIDISNU 3y} Jey} IYSNOy) [ pUY “s[Moq JO sUIYS sWOSONIT 
B UL JO3IE) OY} JOM | JI Se Sem I “JoWoue pue ‘JoyjouR uo) 
‘oul pJBMO} por[ol FNys y °° * ‘Apprnb pousddey yy “vy 
{Jee YsIy oy Jo sdajs oy} UO peop Jyey SUIAT punoy 
919M NOA ZUIWIOW dy} UT yey) JNoge SWIOD I pip MOH *O 
"JI PUTYOQ SBA JY NO pUly pue pus 
oY) 0} Ysnom) sINjUDApeE sI[GIPoIOUT yey} ALES 0} PoUTULI}Op 
‘squog jo ofid ou) ye BUryOoT ‘[[NS poAeys | “aul 90s },UpIp 
ays Zurstidims jou sj 3eU) s}yYSNOY) Joy UT poqiosqe A;d3op 
OS SEM OYS ‘Jay JOJ SY “preAdAvIZ oy) JO Jno poyyem ATWTRD 
pue dn poojs sys UoYyM SUNSLYD MOT[OJ 0} YUIY) 1, UPIp | WI} 
purw AU UO YONUT OS SBM FI PUL ‘OU 0} INDSO PIP HT ‘soz “VY 
{souog jo aid oy} puryeq Surpry 
oq 1ysiw A[ZuoNs os nod pojyeandes ysnf pey oYyM uUeTOIsNUI 
ATuoaeoy ou) yey) NOA 0} Md90 A[oJVIPSWTUT Wt 1, UPI °*O 
‘Zuuoppnys djay },upfnod | ‘Mou 
sn je ZUTYZNeT SIOA\ ST[NYS OY) Jey} SUI 0} Poulloas # ‘SOX “YW 
{Sauog jo ofid ou) Wo spunos presy nod ‘YY °C 
‘souog Jo oyId ay} UT s{[Nys oy} 
JO UOT}OOIIP oY} WJZ spuNos Jvoy 0} powioes J ‘sosues AU 0} 
yorq oures | pue poddojs oisnuz oy) usyy, ‘sMmel ssopuOnOW Joy) 
WIM sn ye SurUUTIZ s][Nys osoy) spisoq ‘preAoAvIs [eroutaold 
QP] paye[ost yey} ul ‘syuoUIOW JUeTpeI I0A4 ATOYSUR[OUT ssOY) 
ZULINP OU YOO} UOTeUIZeUTT AU Jey MOY Aes },0ed | INQ ‘UITY 
WIM poling Useq pel UT[OTA SIY yey} Bopl oY) pey Os[e | “Ale 
OY} OUT OSL DUOISOALIZ S Jaye} Joy 9ES 0} po}sodxo ysoUNTe 
] pue ‘Ypres oY) SAOGR SN PoIJfI] SNSof JO UOTJBOOAU ay], “UITOTA 
s Joujey Joy uo Jayjoq podeyd savy },Up[nod ay ‘pojstxe pey 
Jasue s.ouNnsys Jj ‘snoid pue pes surjsoy sem oy UoYyM sn 
Joy Aejd 0} pasn Joye} s,oUNsTIyD YoIyM ‘snuvzvT fo uoload 
-InSay ay] Sem I ‘ApOTOU snopaArew yey) poppeder AIes[o | 
‘JUSIS 
UL JSIUTJOIA JO ‘MOQ ‘UT[OIA OU SBM JID) SOUIS ‘UISTIO ATYe 
ue savy }.Upip Aoy} dadrjoq 0} Aseo sem JI “UdAROY] WIJ 
UMOP ZUIWIOD },UaJem Asay) YSnoye :spunos s[qeyosIoyun 
9SOy) JO YUIY} 0} YM MoUyY a3Inb },uprp | pue sisny Jo pasuy 
oy} noge pres pey ouNsYD Jeym SuLISquiouros day 3,Upfnos 
] ‘We SUTAIp Yons WIM pode]d useq JOASU peY FI UIIOIA S JoUey 
Jay UO Ng ‘poouUp{IyS sno ut I presy pey om “I Mouy Apeolye 
] pue oUNSYD joIsnw yyM puy jorsnw sured sem yorum 
‘Q[GISIAUL 94} PIeMO} UMEIP sem BuToq ofoyM AUT pUe yUOUT 


¢9 VaddO FHL JO WOLNVHd dH 


| ‘ung sunjes 
oy) jo UUy ay) Je WoOI op Aw ul dn oyom | UoyM ow 
oy} [uN Usy) WoI SuMpAUe JoquIOUaI },UOp | puke asemos 
Swi [je jo oyds ul our poyrey yeoy Aw ‘uoniedde Ajyyeoun 
yey} JO WYIs oy) IY “J[OSUITY URIES seM WI IYBNOy) | ‘pouq 
[9y JO samy oy) Yorym ur saXd YIM OU 3 SuLE[s pesy-s eop 
oiquoy e ‘ms ‘nok 30s J] se Ajieo[d se ‘mes | pue op] 
8 pousdo yeo[d oy} ‘punose pousn Mopeys oy], “yeo[D su} 
SUTYOINIO [[HS SBA |] ‘sn OJUO ATOANp [Jay asde ay) Jo MopulM 
Sse[s-poule}s 94} Ysnosy) Suro. yYSITTUCOU oy) pue ‘reqTe 
ysry ay) Jo JuoY ur ysnf arom sn Jo OM} OY) JUOWOW Jey) IV 
“SULIEIM SEM MOPRYS SY JY) YeO[d oy) JO pjoy oye} 0} a1GQu 
SeM pue P[Nod | Se }Sej SB UBI | ‘OpIsul oUOS pue YoNYd ay Jo 
Joop oy} pousdo Apealje pey Mopeys a4, ‘preMJoy poysns | 
"ANSOA oy} JO [Tem I] APYysiag amp Suoje 
scour A[USppns Mopeys B MES |] UdYM OUI 0} JIQGISNe|d aIOUl 


XNOdI] U04SV) 


£9 


Aou) ‘aloys 0} WIMS 0} SUIAN atom pue }80q Joy} pawopueqe 
pey Aow jt sy ‘eas WIO[D payeyse A[ssofUONOU! yey} JO o3po 
ou} Je SJO[Ies poyoarmdrys o¥I] oIom pleyoRy pue urueyouojy 
“JOJSeEUIEpY 
SI ‘SMOUY JUOAIOAD se ‘OWIeU SOYM ‘JULIS ULIOJS 9} JO JopIo 
yaises Aq poZi[iqourwt Ajsnoouejuejsul us0q pey soAeM UddId 
YsInjq asoyM vas AlZue Ue SY] PSYOO[ SJeos BIISSYDIO 9Y} PoIsA05 
JI MIO[O oy], “SULIOJ BBueNs uo yoo} ssunp “WSstTTAep sandooop 
yey) Ul Jayjel Jo ‘YSU [eIOIe yey) Ul “ose}S SY) UO poo}s Jey) 
‘syusuapyeq preogpses Aq poddo} ‘1aM0} plo Ue UO SUIUTYS o10M 
pue Joyjo Jo 3urusdo oulos ysnomp ut poddys pey (tes SutAp 
# WOI, UdjO}s UdEq APY 0} Polads yey) ISI] Areorp ‘ueM ez) 
USI] JO sXe Moy W ‘pomnsos Apyed ATU yeY Be Suravay ‘a8eRIs oy) 
poyosop Ajueioduia) pey Aoy, “YULIpP B OARY 0} JUOM spuLYose)s 
ay) usyM Inoy yernb oy} sem I “WOY) popuNoUNs soudTIs yeas 
pue uIntoypne AMopeys ‘jseA OU} UT oUOTe JsoWwye aIoM AOY], 
‘SBUI[IEI JOA[IA Pol OY} IOAO Jnd 
Ud0q PY SIOAOD dAI}09}0Id pue SSOUYIepIwss UI Sem W oSNed0q 
Ajzeajo WI 99s JOU pynod Ady], “SAL XOG IOLL-3SIJ Je payoo; pue 
‘poddojs ‘sjeos BNSaYoIO Jo SMO ISI] OY} Sed poyyeM Ao) UST], 
‘JOT OY} UO IOPLUIOS IsNJ oy} YOO) pue ‘souRnUS SIoqlIOsqns 
ay} YSnoIy) UNTIO}pPNe oy} OJUT JUOM ‘ASRS ay} PossoID AD], 
‘sa1nuapuodap s}i pue a8e}s 9U} 0) UONVINSIUTUUpe SY) JO a[NQNSoA 
oY) WO spes| yey) oseoIIE}s peorg sy) Wo I AeMe poyyem AY, 
‘MALT XOG JOL[-3SILJ 0} YSIA op e Aed 0} poploep pey 
Aoy) se ysnf umuzeyouoy] pueulry pue preyory NIN Lig] IM 


SALT XOG 0} HISIA VW 


LZ 


(‘910U Ss .JOJe[SURI]) ‘eIodO seg 34) Jo 
SUT[IID OY) poyeIODop oYM JoyuTed YyOueL] e sem noadouayT] suasnq-sapny,, 


"UOISN][E Ue JO SUINSIA Ud0q pey OM Jey) poziyeal ay “ATID 
owWepey] SY] poyoo, oyM ueWIOM po ue Jo adeys oy) uses 
pey preyory svoroyM ‘xoqg 34) JO SUT[IeI oy) UO [NYS B 9q 0} 
PoUlses JeYM USES pey | ‘S,pIeYTY se owes oy) JOU sem odeys 
Aut ‘Ajoyeunyojuq, “odeys oy) jnoqge poyje) pue suorssoidunt 
IMO jNoge JayIO Yded pfoO} OM ]][eY OY) UT pue ‘ynNO JUOM OAV 
‘poreoddesip 
pey odeys oy} Ing ‘jUIod owes oy) Je BuLIE}s sAeMye ‘3UIAOUI 
OYA ‘JeY} SAI] SoMMUTWT MOF B PoOyEM OM UO] ‘puey 
S.Joyjo yoro poddus om ynq ‘SumjAue pres sn jo JOON 
"OALJ XOG Ul odeys eB MPS YIOG J puke preYyoRy ‘juoWOUI 
owes oy} JW ‘“OAIT xOg UI smopeys Jodsap udAd oy) pue 
WNLOJpNe oY} UI SsouyJeprwes ay} Aq a[qIssod speul UOTeUID 
-nyey JO pury & JO SUINDIA oJom om sdeylod ‘yonu os sn 
poqimed yey} ‘s0UaTIS a]qIpoIoUT ue JO JSpIUI oy) UT ‘saAqas 
-INO punoy om YSIYM UI SUTOS ArIeUIPIORnXS oy) Sem I 
sdeylog ‘[JOM se sonjnoey yensta Aw jo ‘pasapisuoo s8urm) 
[fe ‘pue sonjnoey oaneurseut Aur jo souryeq oy) pormedu 
SARY JSNUI sIoseueul se suUdIgqaq pue AUSI[Og poposoons 
QM DUIS JOAD [jSeM UMWIeYOUOPY ISITAIS JUBSaTO Ue JeUA\] 
poy ussq pey OM Jey} Jsoys eIodDO ou} ynoqe dendejo sy] 


‘SIIOUWISU SITY UI 9j0IM OH ‘poqium 
-Jod sem oY Jey) poywWpe uTUeYOUOJ ‘asked Aue uy ‘alam Kau) 
sumnsoid | ysvoy yW ‘oATSUoyordde alam Ady) Jey) pres savy J 
‘OALY XOG JOL]-ISU.J SuNepdussajyuos Apuspis Mou o19M pue 
WSVYOOIM JO sd0Id oWIOs payoynyo ATjeuly pey oyM ‘eJodQ sy) Jo 
SIOSVULUT MOU OM} OY) JB UMOP PoyooT ‘xoq Jay JO asnedeq suo 
-AIQA9 0} UMOUY ‘elopueg pue ‘JjasIoy esnyjery ‘sox ‘esnyory 
pue ‘eajeen ‘ond[D ‘ouydeq ‘euowlog ‘soy, ‘ayoXsg ‘eiopueg 
‘Blo ‘oqoH ‘aLnIyduy ‘sisy oJam soureU Tay] ‘soMsiy snories 
AI2A oom Koy) Apeurpio ysnoy) ‘uotsuoyoidde s pseyory pue 
UluLeYyoUO|y JO UNj opeul pue ‘possof ‘poysne] ‘pooeunss sam3iy 
‘Ays Joddoo ,S,noadaugy] ut ysoy ‘JJ1[9 94) Jo doy AISA OW IV 
"SOXxOq JO SION) ply) pue “puodas ‘}sNJ OY} UI SSUTTIeEI oY) Jo 
Soul] SuIsses ‘[ofered “‘poamnd oy) Aq powuasaidos sem UOHEpuNoy 
ISOYM SIF] SuIs{Ng ‘SuLII0} ‘Zuroeuow oy yoddns 0} popusjur 
ssurfid snoizipoid oyf] sMopeys oy} UI aso1 auO}s paysI{od jo 
siel[id 31q }YSI0 SU], “SOXOQ SpIs-1Jo] OY) preMo} AVM JIOy) ope 


XNOLIT U0JSVS) 99 


ecb ALY XOG JONI Woy I YoreM yO [],oa—AepINjes 
uo pouliojied Sureq st ssnpy,, “Ajlisue pres Ayjqeuly pseyory 
WU ,,jSN JO sjooy syeul 07 sutAy [fe ae [dood ssoyy,, 
‘AYWOMI}OU SuTyjAUL PUTT 0} paptey ose 
Kay} ‘syeas BNSOYOIO dy} WO; WXS pULY-IJ2] ISITJ SY) JO IOUIOD oy} 
ye ysnf st yor ‘OAL XOG JOOLJ-punoIDH uy “Mosq APOAIIp xoq 
JOO[J-punoys dy} 0} UMOP yUOM Ady} ‘XOq oy) UT osTo oIoyYMAUP 
ueY} aley} DOW SUIYJOU SUTIOAODSIP pUe ssoUSNOLIs }ojI0d 
WM jadseo oy) ZUIOO Io “JATOA Pol WIM paloaod SurTIeI 
SH pue ‘jodie syt ‘sieyo syt ‘s8ursuey por sy yIM ‘AeM AIOAO 
ut Areurlpio AjysnoJoy) sea xoq su, “I jnoge sIseW SuTyJOU 
WIM ‘eyo ysouoy ue sem J yey) mes Aoy) Ing .,"7es,, ATfensn 
_doI0A OY),, YIM UI Jey oy) pourwexs AT[njores pue ‘sey 
OY} PUP SIDAOD OY} Pol] ‘XOQ SY) UT SINITUINY SY) POAOU pIBYOrYy 
pue uTueYyoUOyy ‘JoyIO Yous ye Surysne] ‘posnure A[sno1AqC 
“SIOQUSIOU S}I WOIJ I SOYSINSUT|sIP SUIPON “SOxOQ JON)-jSIJ 
JOyIO oY) [2 OA] XOq B SI I “OAL XOg UI Jw OM MOU pUuy 


‘aroy) odeys ou punoj pue ‘71 OJUT 
jUOM ‘OALJ XOg 0} poLLNy AjayerpowmuT om ‘A[ppIM Surysne’y] 


69 VaddO FHL dO WOLNVHd dHL 


02 


‘au 0} Wt Aed [IM nod WOOF yey UT MOY NOA 42] 
Ja}e] [JIM | ‘oouemorye ApyyUoU Au SuTuJa.U0S suOTONsUI Jo 
yoog Aut ul suotstaoid oy) ydoooe [IM ‘sIossooopoid no0A 
omy ‘nod ‘AnD suepeyy Aq paloalpop 9q 0} Jono] & Ul “Pp 
“ABlOp NoyIM 
uonIsod Joy 0} Joy dJ0)SOI [JIM NOX “Joysn Aur ‘ATED ouwrep 
-BJAI JO SOOTAIOS [eAOT pUL POOS OY) SUTALY UO JsSISUI ][ “¢ 
TIE 0q []M ays ‘eyOTIeD ynoge AUOM JOU OG ‘ove oUt) 
“Sty Aq 348tu0} Buns 9q [IM SILIONSIVP] JO BOI OY, *Z 
-ATayetpouruat fesodsip Aur ye 
poord yt yueM | pue—xoq Aur yor OUI SAIS [JIM NOX “T 
<SUONIPUOD INOJ sey I “WINjQeUININ 
AUI SI olay ‘aoved quem [NS NOA J] {UU} ‘Tem ye OM DIY 
‘sloseury Jeoq Aj 


“2 ‘OC Woy Jaye] BTqnop eB punoy Aoy) ‘sur 
-uloul Aepmnjes uo dd1JJO IY) 0} OWRD sIOSeUPLU OML AHL NIH 


sad.uanbasuo-) 
INFWYSIUT ay} 9ag aM pue 
‘agsnoyzy eiedgC ,,pesins,, 
e UL PaUIOsIag JSNVI DAP O}F 
aeq ulMIeYydUO|, puruwly 


pue preypry UTUTy YoTyM Uy 


8 


_ jAUBUL 00) OM) JSBIT 7B S,Jey] jUSWIATQeIS XIS,, 

66 “XI§ 99 

geuoyor’y] Inoisuoyy ‘oaey noA op uowelquis Aueul MOF],, 

,, UOUId[qQUIS 94} :SOSIOY 34} JON,, 

..gSaSJOY INO JO PL 303 0} JUBM NOX jIeUA,, 

.< O|QUIS S[OYM dy) JO PLI Jad 03 NOA Yse 0} BUIOD 9A] ‘AIS,, 
<gJISIA INOA JO IOUOY 9Y} SMO | OP JeUM OL,, ‘poyeprwunur 

IPT & ‘preyory pres ,,‘feusyoe’] InoIsuop] ‘SUTUIOU pooyn,, 
‘puey siy ul pey oy dois SuIpLI op 

YIM $}00q STY Jo suo yous APUsedu pue Ul oWed [eUDyoe'] 

., UL WY Sulig,, 


., O7e}S 
B YONS UI WIIY Uses JoAOU 9A,J MOUY ATUO J ‘MOU 3,UOp J,, 
_.GOUL UII JUBA OY Sop Jy Ing © °° “T[9M AIDA, 


_, So]qeys TuoouRIy Oy) sseuRUT 0} posn dA ‘JoUTeN 
poyrys ATysIy e st yeuoyoe] “woy} 0} W SuTyoRa) Jo Ajnp oy) 
DABY USWIAIGEIS BY], .°93"}S 9} MOUY, JY) SosIoy poureNn poou 
aM ‘UO OS pue ‘ajaydoid aT ‘ane VT Ul SUOTSsa90Id 9Y} 10,7,, 

_ GoUeU $,pOH Ul ‘IOJ YAK jSASIOY ATOM], 
_, SOSIOY SATO) OARY OAA “JUOUTpTEdap juUL} 
-JOdWI UR S$.jJ ‘BEPUNJOI 3} JO UONDIIIP OY} UT ‘sIe][I9 94) UT,, 
Gg} ST SIU AA [VOpt ou pey | {eJadK oy} UI oIqQuIS B S.dIOL,, 
_, bIOdO 94) JO sIqQuIS OY], “IIs ‘smo Z,, 
 GAGeys JeUM,, 
., B[GeIS DU} JO VBIeYO UI S.9H,, 
¢<LOP SY SIOP WHYUM Puy, 
_, Jopesy Itoy) st feusyoe’y] pue ‘eiodgQ ou} 
JB USUIDTQRIS [EIOADS oe SIO ],, “IOOIsjY powder , ‘MS ‘sox,, 
. GUeUZTqe)s peoy A LIEU, 
_, UBUZTGRIS peoy INOA s.d},, 
“pseyory poyse ,.g[euotoe’] Ss ouM,, 
., Jesdn suises oy pure ‘Ud8IN $.I SABS OH,, 
‘ples oy ,,‘Uate}UNd NOA JO SUO 99S 0} YT] P[NOM [eUsyse’T,, 
"UL OWS ‘IOJEISIUIUIPe 34) ‘IOIDIOIA 
“SISIf YIOg WIM Ysop sty Sur 
-punod A[snoso3ta ‘preyory pomoys ,,jWIYy Jo ysnous pey 9A_],, 


‘DO 
‘JUSTOLJJNS SI ISI DY} 0} PIOM VW 
‘9snoy pasino ev UI ssnv.7 yUoSaId 
[EM NOX 7YSIU0} ‘sUOTIPUOD aso} J90U JOU Op NOA J] 


TZ VaadO FHL IO WOLNVHd SHL 


MBS J JEM Joye “HUIY) | JYM NOA [][9} 0} OW JO.,, 
«6 eMyeu 
Apooyiod s.jyeuAy {jeuoyory simoisuopy ‘pemjyeu ApoojI0Oq,, 
cc 7” Jeamjeu Apoojiod s.jJ {00} ow ‘ueou NOA Op yeUM,, 
¢f00} NOX (OO) NOX jUV,, 
‘peHeys preyory 
ce TE PIP OYA ysoys ot 
SUM J]J,, ‘SUOJOPUN Ue UI ples pue sJosvueU oy} 0} Jaso[o poddays 
oH ...}QNop ou s,a1ay) ‘powssouod UI] se Jey sy ‘st WI yeyM Nod 
II?) [1.1 pue,, ‘Apdnige pres jeuoyor’] ,,“eopr ue oaey J ‘SoX,, 
«  ’ «ROPE OUIOS 
aaey jsnul nod,, ‘preyory pres , ‘feuoyoey] Imoisuopy ‘Ing,, 
"poysajoid IdIDID|W , ,jJJasAwW Jo 
We | Se UY JO ons se UL] (Jodaoyyoog Ss ,uOneSIUTUpe sU],, 
_, Jedseyyoog s,UOHeysUIUpe ou} sem I WTR[D sayjO 
‘soleiounusadns ou} asnoor Woy) Jo sWOg ‘ssUIy) YsI{oO.,, 
Go) Oy) yNoge Aes UOWDTqQL}S INCA Op JeUAA,, 
.. 21qeIs ou) ul ApogAIoAa JO pL 303 0} NOA 
yse 0} OUIOD 3A,] AYM S Jey, “SmOUY APOGON ‘MoUy },UOp J,, 
. (uoddey If pip MoH,, 
_,jUSTOIS 
uag0q S,d4 PUY jSJBS9D OM} },UdTe aroy) yey) NOA ]][9} UD | puP 
‘sosioy Auevur ‘Aueul Mes | pue ‘sIeoA U9} JO} SoyTqu}s TuOOURI OU} 
UJIM SBM J,, “ApINO pres Teuayor’T , jSIWS9D OM} },UdIe Bd ],, 
€Weydosd aT Wi assou ayIyM 
BIq dU} ‘Iesgc),, “JOIOIOY poyse ,.{ua]o}s useq sey IesgD,, 
‘dois SuIpi sry 
YIM 300q oy} UO MOTQ AYSIU ev JJOSUITY SARS [eUDYOR’] puy 
_ jUd[OIS udaq 
SPY JeSg7) Je} MOU UdAIIO SAVY ATUO | ING ‘OATAM} DALY PIp T,, 
_ {SOSIOY DATOM) PLY NOA OUI PIO} IOIOIDJAY INDISUO,, , 
‘poyeodal Jeuayor’y] , ,jUdA2TH,, 
‘poyeodas preyory , .joAToM,, 
‘pajyoalIos Jeusyor’y] , ,‘UdAITH,, 
_, SOSJOY 
DA[OM) JOJ USWDTqQeIS INO] ueY} AOU! poouU },UOp 9M,, “ATTeoNeUd 
-Wd posepoop pIeYyoYy ,,jJUOWUIZAOS oY} yNOgGe oIed },UOP J,, 
«7 OF OIMjUDA AvUr 
[ JE pue ‘JUDUIUIDAO3 ay} Jo Sesg}oid Aq paidnss0 a1, Aoyy uote} 
-SIUIWIpY SY dul, ou) Jo ArejaJoosiIopun oy} Aq sn uo posoduit 
pue pojyealo alom,, ‘poureidxo ia1Jopy ,,‘suonisod ssouy,, 


XNOALFT U0qSV®) Zi 


‘gould & Yons Je o8eQNO Ue YONs 0} pojool 
-qns ud0q 10foq JOAOU A[QINS pey yey) VAS & JO vJoJJe? Yyoulq 
OY} UO IOS S}I poyuLIdut JOO} YSII sty Uy) pue ‘AIO ayeIodsop e 
paisjyn sys yey) opoIIOIUIEs poyoodxoun ‘pidel B yons UT Joy pou) 
pue Aid ourepey] quip oy} pozios puey Yo] STY ISM,J “UOTSe O7UT 
yuom oy ATuoppns yng “yeods 0} d[qeuN sem oO} “SUTWJOU pres 9H 
‘soko SI UI SUYSEL BUTUIYSIT 94} PUY de] SNOLINJ sTy JO JO[OD 
OY} dJOM WIY OpIsur SUT[IOg Josue dy} JO SUBIS IoyNO ATUO OU} ‘Tey 
OS ‘apojdxe 0} Apear pouwioes oF ‘JYBIS SuUIAJIIIO) & SBM ZT pUe 

DOV] S PILYOTY UNUWILT MES SYS ‘ddUOJUDS JOY YSTUTJ JOU PIP ays 
SPO Sury) 
-owos pey nod asneseq no 998 pue SUIOD 0} OWI BUTTIA) JsoUs 
BIOdO sy) WoIJ JoyI] B 303 | SuTUIOU! sIy} yng ‘UoWIEpUES ‘ow 
esnoxq,, ‘A[pomuny pres pue puey Joy UI Joye, & WIM WOO] 
oy} ojur ysinq AND sulepeyy osneoeq ‘Iopusjop yensn sy Aq 

popzen3 Sureq jou AUopIAs sem yy ‘pousdo Joop sy) usy) IsN¢e 
"QS[O SUTYJOWIOS Jnoge SuryUIY) Apeolye sem oy pure ‘popsd 

-U0d preyory ,,‘oourAue JI ynoqe ye} Jou $.j29] ‘YSU IITV,, 
{PREP o1,0M 
‘SNO[NOIPLT o1.0M JT ‘SN Je YSnv] [[IM DUOATOAD pu ysoYys ou) 
MOQ” [12 [[.2H jAeq Ino uo ssoid spoyM oy} DAY T].9M\,, ‘Poppe 
UTULTeYOUOWL ,, ‘JOP UOT] stp “josmmmog pue “Tjoyog ‘gugise] 

WIM WoO], sep oy ye Aep AJOAO YULIP eB sey oy puy,, 
‘no yuTod 0) parep 

JODIOAY . “OAYeUASaIdoI JUOWIUIDAOS 3} JO PUSLI & S.d}H,, 
‘IONIAN 

polspio oy ,.jAjayeipowum pjorXed ou) JJo JOIPI yey) dye], 

‘Josue YIM SUTIN] SEM pIeyoRy 

‘Yo pue pomogq jeusyor’y] 

., aAQ-PooH “asInod Jo ‘sod ‘soX,, 

.colqeys Aw ut sUOAIOAS any [[,NOA puy,, 
<. JSOYS OY} JSUTeSe JUTeTdUIOD B BSpOT| 

T.OAA ‘MOU o8 Avur nod ‘feuasyoey] IMoisuopy ‘Tam AIOA,, 

‘dn poojs preyory 
_, Mayes ou} JO ssouylep ou} oyur poseoddesip pue poods 

years ye Sutod ydoy Aoy) yng ‘00} paynoys | pue ‘pip | ‘soX,, 
GAN 

yep oy} pue ssioy o}1yM oy) Joye UNI }.UpIp noA puy,, 
., TeSad) BT] Aoexo poyooy] yey) osJOU 

OYM & SUIPII ams yep eB ‘nod oes | se Ayureyd se ‘mes ],, 

.<G[euoyor’] Insisuopy ‘oes nod pip yeyM puy,, 


€Z VaiadO FHL JO WOLINVHd AHI 


oy) ‘Jjasw viedo oI) IY “AIOIS s.eyOopIeED 0} pojOAcp ATPAISNIOXo 
MOU 3JOM JUITe) S dUNSUYD sutsteid ungoq pey ey) sIodedsmou 
uleyioz) ‘yduiniy JoyjouR Joy souRYo eB sUNSLIYD BUIAIS Wo 
Woy} JUdAdId 0} sIOZeURU 3} UO ainssaid yIOxe spud [njIamod 
Joy SUIARY ‘RAL Joy , JOYJOUIS,, 0} JYSTU JOY [ew WIM SuryJom 
us0q prey sys ‘UdYy) ddUTS ‘eIddGO oY) 3e UOTISOd Jay dn SATs 0} 
OUSIP ISSIYSI[S dy} UMOYS JOsUOCT OU peY dys pue ‘UOHENsTUTUpE 
oy} ysuIese SUTYy[NS Jo WJ eB puUe sIYyOUOIQ Jo osvd JUSIdIOUT 
ue JO pomd APULsUT JOF pey eyHOPIeD ‘yuouFSSe[doI Joy 0} UDAIS 
useq pey yey} UoNdodear ATeUIpsoRI}xo dy} JO poures] sys YOY MM 
‘901}0U S$ JUSWIOW B Je Joy pooe[dal sys UsYyM YduINL years 
B SUIADIYSR JO} SUTSLIYD UdAIZIOJ JOU peY eYOPeD “HI Jo oemMe 
-UN SPM OYM ‘dUNSTIYD Jood ysurese pojyooup Jpasioy eyopIeEd 
yey} uo 34) sem joyd AUO ay) yey) ‘IoAOMOY ‘ST YIN OY], 
‘PoJeplUITUT 9q J[OSIOY 39, P[NOM OYM UeUIOM JO pUTY dy) 30 
SBM YS ‘poppe sys ‘Inq ‘IYSIT 0} sWI0D ATTeENWUDAD pyNomM ze} j0][d 
SNOISIA B JO JO3IE} SU} 9q 0} POWIE[D YS “Joy UINI 0} PoUTULIA}Ep 
Auoua jaINOS B pey YS Jey} ples uso sys pue ‘JOY JsuTese 
po}oalIp sem Sumuosyos snoyeol Jo sos [Te yey) poadljoq sys 
“SIOY}O 3Y} JO 
AUe UkY) SUTUDJBIIY} SIOUI SVM FI jn ‘PdAToooI pey sys Jey} PUTy 
S}I JO ISIIJ OU} JOU SEM 1979] JEU], ‘JYSNOY) UT SOT SWIeDOq PUR paq 
ur dn yes ays ‘aye[OooYD oY Joy JYSNoIq pey prew su) YoIYyM UO 
Aexy ou) AeMme poysnd oyg “yseyyeoiq Joy ayodde ou pey eyorsea 
‘WI SUIPVdI IDV “YU pol UT Ud}IIM ATIsUINID sem yeoIY) SIU], 


“Weop ueyy 
OSIOM SUNOJsIWI & ‘SUIS 0} UIZdq NOA UdYyM jsnf NOA dys 
O} OUN}IOJsIWM yeoIs eB yOodxa ysnu NOA ‘JYysIUO} BuUIS NOA J] 


:I9N)9] 
snourAuoue ue pUNOo}J sys WI UT “poq UI Joy 0} JYSNoIq [eu Joy 
pey pue prleul Joy JoJ Suv ‘gIoUOH-}UIeS-3Inogne,{ np ony oy} UO 
Osnoy |[eUS & UT POAT] OUM ‘eYOTIeD ‘OUI UTES STU) JnOGeE IV 
"JOOS oy} OUT Jay ALed 0} UaUaDITOd OM} 
pue sire}sumop Joy 303 0} SAOQ SOI) YOO} I] ‘Yeap Jo sjear) pue 
‘sysajoid SdJd1f ‘SYOIYS JURUSIPUT Joy YJIM popuNoOsal viodg sy} 
pue ‘}I SZI[eol pIp SYS JOU 7e [Je USYT, “Ioy 0} pousddey pey yey 
OZI[BAI 0} JOU PoUISds puL PoZeEp [[NS seM oYs ‘Tey 9Y) Ul JlasJoy 
punoy Ams owepeyy usym yeu) Appomnb os Joao |e sem I 


XNOAFT U04SUS) PZ 


<< SUIAP 
SI OYS JE UOAS,, ISU WY} oLIONSIWP JO s[O1 9y} SUIS pfnom 
pue ]Jom Apjoopiod sem ays yey) wWOdel 0} youq yUoM AreyOINNS 
S pmeyorY UNIT ‘UITVOY S,eyOLTeD JO SMOU JOJ OWIOD SUTARTT 
‘QOUBQINSIP B 9899 0} poly Aoy) ‘pareay ays 
sv ‘JI SaTIeue Joy DOUdTIS 0} pue SurmAUe Joy Apeor 9q 0} WOU) 
UO ZUTUNOD SeM SYS {OYS },UPIp ‘sroMUUpe Jo AyusTd pey oys puy 
“SIOITUIPe UMO JOY YA dsnoy oy) SuTT[Iy Aq 3 [FOF 0} poyueM sys 
pres pue ‘oouerullojiod s,3urusAd Jey} SuLINp Joy Wey 0} pous 
-yeory) seeq suNSLIYD Aq poztueSio jo] & yey) poounouUe ‘osnoy 
Jay O} Spud, Joy [Te pououTUINs oYyg “jYsIU yey) Josuep years Ul 
9Q P[NOM YS }eY) Joy PSOOUIAUOD 13}}9] OY) pUw BSIvOY OY], ‘osIvoy 
B SEM MOPUIM 9} 0} JUOM SYS USYA MBS SYS SUIY) ISNJ OUL 
‘UOISseldxe pouTWajap AIOA B 
UM ‘Ystueds UI su}ZO Maj & BIOS pue ‘pres sys , “90S [],9AA,, 
‘poq Joy wor dn poojs sys ‘poaroool ysnf pey sys Joyo] oSueTs 
oy) Ul JeaTy) OY) Inoge SUTyxUI) poYsTUTy pey epyopED usyM 
| “SAOT JO djay ou) DIA 
‘ye Aq poyind useq pue ‘nod uey) sujdep Joyeors WoOIy UST 
SAY SIOYIO JOJ ‘ayLIoNSIeyy pue ‘etpoydO ‘eMATA “jolpne ouresaq 
nod usyM jt pouresal savy prnom no ‘j1 SO] US) pue [Nos zB peYy 
g0uo nod jt ‘eyopIeD {uUONSaJ1ed JUSIJOJJIPUI oUeS OU) WIM AIO 
-YONEGaP PIPIOS IO SAOT SUIITGNS Jnoge SUIS 0} AIITIGe S}I JOJ sTQL 
-YICUIOI JUSUINISUI O[IOOp JeU} WIJ SIsnw MeTp NOA ‘SISAOT MOA 
JO 9UO JO oSNoY oY) UT poIoYeS sJo}seUl OY) JO JUOIJ UT ‘USM [NOS 
mo sem sou {STeYy oisnu AZurp ul ssuos [eotuAd ‘asreod Sues 
nod Udy ‘Seg Ul ‘19}e[ I Se DIOU AA {PUOTSOIVg UT SUIDAR} 91q 
-eyndalsip ul poouep nod usYyM ‘eyOTIeD ‘TNOS INOA sem SIOU AA 
., [nyHneaq st [nos 
nok pue ‘pyryo Au ‘{nos mod YIM SUIS NOX,, :UeUIEDH UT WTY 
JOJ sjsai0,y YADG Suns pey sys UsyM ssneIy sOLIqeyH sey] 0} 
ples IuIssoy JYM BOLTED 0} pres savy p[nod suo ou yng ‘oSuUeI 
peoiq e@ pey pue ‘astooid A[qeiupe pue [njiomod sem juoW 
-nsuT oy) ‘yoYs uy *ArIOyIOddI Jsva Joy Jo ed Aue Joy pomnbar 
QUINJOA e0A ay) yor, JO Aay-JJo BuIs 0} UMOUY Usdeq JOAU 
pey sys ‘sJosoduios youely pue ‘ueley] ‘ueuIOD Wo ‘Ioduts 
years eB Jo uOoTNQque oy) 3dwIO) IWsIW yey) SuMpAIOAD popnyo 
-ut Ajoyoder JofY ‘OUO snopeAseuU e A[qeiuspun ysnoy) ‘jUOUr 
-nsul ue ATUO sem SY ‘[NOS JOU yeSY JOUJIOU peYy eYHOTIeD 
‘ssoueAouUP Sso[pus JOY OSNvd 0} pol puy 
QUTISIIYD Jnoge ssury) SAIsUSJJO A[snoeBeNnno ples vAIp snowy 


GZ VaadO FHL 4O WOLNVHd dHL 


ysnf sey soueullojiod oyy,, “suo, Suryof cures om ut parfdar 
ulMeyouopy ,,‘ALny B@ JO YONUT 00} UT 9q 10U S.Joy ‘je M,, 

<.GJ0K Ted INOA Ul ZUIJOWOS pres Sd10A B SBP {NOA Jnoge Jey AA,, 
‘Ayyeraof pres pue onseojoo sity psemo) pouesj—mol si op 
Ul IYSI sy} UO WeYS ISI SyJ—ITeYD UMO S,JsoYys oy) UO SuNIIS 
sem OYM ‘pleYyoy Uoym [[9y JO stomod ayp 0} [eodde sy s ysney 
‘Iq undoq Ajooreos pey ‘ouojleq snowey oy) ‘e}U0,5 snfores 


[p4Om ajsuis Ou jUusIS ON 

‘KAvadp aduapis ay yoasq IM Kjdas 49AaN 
jp4O'] Sit puv uo1vas UD 

Kipam 71814 Ku jnoysno.sy J 

[]09 [ Op urpa uy juIDA 


"ysoys Itsy) Jo AjUO SuryUT Mou aJoM UTUUZEYOUOWy 
pue pseyqory :mouy no se ‘sisoyjodAy ssojaseq B sem eI) 
ynq ‘ueZaq I se UOOS se I doys pfnod Aoy) yeU} OS UINTIONpNe su) 
UI 3q 0} payUeM pey puke sOURqINIsIP pouuL]d oy} Jo pulM us9)03 
pey sioseuvu oy) sdeysod yey) 1YSnoy) spusy s.eyopeD ‘“sALy 
xOg UI UMeYyoUOPy pue pleyory Jo souasald oy) sem jeuLIOUge 
powsas yey) sury) ATUO sy], “sOURGIMsSIP e 9}¥0I0 0} ZuTUUELTd 
oq Wsru Aoy) yey) UOTOIdsns Aue yno pon souueU Jodoid 
‘Injoovad pue souvreodde juesejo ssoym sis08eiodo sJepn3ar jo 
posoduios sem soUaIpne oY}—JOAP] Is} UOM dUIS BUOT peYy 3eU) 
OISNU 0} UTese JOU Ud}SI[ 0} UL} UONUSJUT JoyIO OU po}ooTJaI 
S90vJ ploe[d ssOyM SUdZI}ID sse[d-o[ppru 9]qQe}0edsa1—sJaptsyno 
Maj B JOJ }dooxy ‘Jsurese s[yeq 0) posoddns oom Aay) sioyends 
-UOD SNOTIOIDF 9Y} JOJ punose poyoo, Aurea Ady} Ing ‘3uTUDAD 
yey) elodO sy) 38 [Te s19M Aoy) :ostuoid Moy Joy spusLy IOP] 

‘Joy poInssval YOIYM “sajou 30Iy} JO OM) Sues pue ‘slop 
-[noys JUS.IFTUSeW Joy possnsys ‘A[[NJUrepsip paysney] eyopses 


"WY3tU0} Suts 0} AQ 0} ssoupeul oq pynom 
I ey) ozIyeoI [JIM NoX ‘aiqisues ore nod FI ‘pfoo eB aaey NoZ 


:A]dUIIS pres 11 ‘Jog sem I] “UO JsIZ Oy) Se SUNMpUeY sues 
OU} Ul J3}}9] SnOWAUOUe IOyJOUR PIATI90I SYS YOOII,O SAT] IW 
‘Jono] oy Aq PoASAUOD JeoIY) Oy) YIM sUOTEpUdUTIUIOSAI 
poysodxoun pue Tensnun ssoy} sueduios day jou prnoo ays aim 
-Iedap siy Jaye ‘syemp proae pue ‘ep ye owoy ye Avs ‘fnyoreo 
oq 0} Joy posin ‘Jyeyaq s,preyory uo ‘pey Arejaloos oy) IOUS 


XNOAFT U0jSVD 92 


“QAVI] O} JoSeULUT O8¥}S 9Y) poUOTOUW sy 
“JOB PUODIS OY} JOJ BUISTI seM UTELINS ou} Jey} Suloos ‘uSU) Ing 
‘SulUMO ‘preyory ples ,.{jnoqe Suryye} nod ose WeyMA,, 
__{SNOLINY St BYOpIED jeyopres isurese jojd ev poyoyey sary 
SPUSLIT $ dee] SUTISLIYD yep SI,, ‘porjdor oy , .“SUOIM S.1eUAA,, 
‘OUIT} B YONS Je d19y} OWUOD WIY 
99S 0} poystuo}se ‘a0u0 ye payse OQ Ady) ,.{3U0IM S.JeUM,, 
‘palojsn[y Suryooy ‘ur sures 
JOSeUBUI 93e}s By) puke pouado xOq I9y} JO Joop oy) ATUOppns 
"QOUD}SIXO SITY JO 
SIOseueW SY) PUTWIAI 0} BuINJOU sUOp pRY 3UTSOg SNOLIN}sAU 9U} 
Je} OS pue ‘WITY Ud}ORIOJ JSOW]S pey UTUIEYOUOJ] jISOYS SY], 
.G80YS OY LWOYM WNAA,, 
_ gnok ysurese JuTefduiod e aspoy 0} SUIOS s,sys MOUY 
noX op,, ‘umueyouopy ples , ‘AIH oulepep jo suryeods,, 
‘OUIT} @ Joy sovid s ATH sWUepey] SYe} pue SWIOD ‘s0UapIyUOS 
yeas pey oy WIOYAA Ul ‘oSIOINUOD sIy SARY O} Popldap pey oy Jey} 
WIY plo} pyeyory pue uoyeueldxs ue JoJ poyse ulueyouoy] 
_, Silay} 0} o[doad Joyj}o Surmoys surseq sys d0JOq 
‘90U0 4SBO] Je JBaS Poos wv DALY O} JOY poyUeM | ‘UO MOU WOY 
qystU AIDA d19Y SUIWUOD 9q [[,dYS BOUIS PUY “SWIT) ISNJ Joy SI 
SIUL, “BiadD oY} 0} Udeq JOADU pey oBIOTOUOD AJ ‘PIP | ‘SOX,, 
..gS}OJO} Woy} saves nozZ,, 
<«, PuBqsny 
Joy pue ‘JayjoIq Joy ‘essJarouos Aw st ‘puowy AW ‘Jey, ,, 
"UTUIBYOUOFY POYse , {Ie} SJeUM,, 
"sJ2O9 YOO 
topopeoiq Buueom soueleodde osieod Jo usw om) Aq poxueyy 
pue WNLOVpNe oy) JO S[Ppru oy) UT yeos BNSOYdIO Ue UT SUTNIS 
‘yoR]q UL PdSSOIP UPWIOM SUTAOO]-Ies[NA Joye “yey ve onsed] 
[OD STy 0} INO payuiod pue uUIVSe sIIWIS 0} poUsIop preyonRy] 
«¢ .aSNOY paesind, e Joj,, ‘suryof [TNs 
‘poyeulol UTMBYOUOP , ,“soUsIpNe poysnsunNsip Ape] e S.I],, 
‘palomsue pleyory ,,‘o}e] SI Jsoys oy} ‘sOZ,, 
“UIUIBYOUOP] pres ,,jUMOP 9UC,, 
| ‘po[fus pue 
JOJO YORd Je Poyoo] sIoseueU OM} OU) “[[OJ UTELINS oy} VOY AK 
"J08 JEU) UI BUIS JOU SOOp s}LIONSIePY VOUIS ‘SpUSTIJ Ss ,eyOpIED 
astidins JOU pIp YoIyM “WUOpTOUT JnOYIIA Aq USM 49e ISI] OY], 
¢¢ 908 JST Ol} JO o[ppru 
OU} [[D SALE },useop ATjensn ysoys oy} Jey) MOUY NoA pue ‘undoq 


LL VaedO FHL JO WOLNVHd 4HL 


"UO SUIOS SUM JeYM POOPUOM pUe JOyJO Yous Je payoo] 
souRqINsIp B Joy suvjd posoddns oy) ynoge 3uNpou Mouy OUM 
9soy} yey} oyeLIdosddeur pue poyoodxoun os sem BuLIs0yD SU], 


jkom ku uo aut djay of 

W4D UD paau jou Op puYy 

‘&invaq v jou ‘kpyj vp jou ‘kinvag v jak 40N 
‘J wp Kpv] v jou ‘pio Kul ‘ON 


:JOB PUSS JVY} UT SOUT] ATUO Joy Suns pue o3e}s SY) PessoJo pey sys 
UdYM porooyo A[pNoy sea ‘ojLIONSIePA] JO BJO ou Ur ‘eyo yng 

‘90R[d axe} JOU pip I] “Jopuntq 

SULIE[S & USSG SALY P[NOM UOHRAO JodIOSIpUE Ue YONG ‘suoTNUDzUT 

“SpuoLy Joy JO WY} WLWOFUT PfnOM Jey} UONAO Ue YIM pojooIs 

9q 0) SUIOS SEM SUNSLIYD Jey} pounsse suested s eNnopIED “YSIS 

IST Je SuNeanded Joy spew wieyd ApoyouRjsw pue yyNoX ysoyy 
JoH ‘ouTe oUTTNOseuT Joy ul suTTeodde sem seeq sUTISIIYD 

"polojUs JaQoIS “USIS s}I UO 

snyooeg pos oy) JIM UJOAR) B JO JOIN Ul BUILTYM oIOyM SUONeUI 
pue ‘usWIOM SUNOA ‘SIOIP[OS ‘sIaysiIng ‘syuapMs poyeouYysr] 


€IUIM aADY aM OS 
‘AOYDU I1 UDD IDYM 

jauif 40 asév07) 
‘4onby ayiym 40 pay 


‘J21q03 oy) Jo yduinIy oy], “ors 
“NU Ul UONeSTXO}W] “sursuts snoAof WIM popunosal 98e}s su], 
¢< AIS SYOOT 9H “Pog UI 9q 0} WYSNO 9H, 
<, JUNODSIA 94} “IJOWIOIG STH,, 
..GUITY opisog SUIIs UeU 3UuNOA aed 
oy} S.OyM puy,, ‘pamnuULMUW uTUTeYyoUOW] .," °° TOM “TIPA,, 
cc | «PUL S T]JAIOg eT] sem oy UMOTY 
1, Upey | JI yey) ATULIEM OS JOARJ JOY UI OU 0} ayOds oFT *SOZ,, 
..¢Auseyy op yunos,, 
‘Us OM} ATUO 
O19M 310y) YOIYM UI XOq JOI}-jsNJ e PIBMO} Poppou preYyoTYy 
. GSoy} oe OUAA,, 
66 ‘SOX,, 
<<GSPUudLY sey oveq OS,, ‘payse pue Jeo s preyory 0} 
QSO[D pouRs] UTUIeYOUOP] ‘ouOs sem JoseueUI 93e}S sy} WOU AA 


XNOAFT 04S) 9/ 


Aq S8uI[o9} JoUUT sty SUIMOYS 9q OL ‘PouUMOI, pue ‘sJopfNoYs siy 
possniys ‘oyoujsnur sty jo dy oy pomoyo oddiiyg yunop ‘uy 
puryog ‘Suidoom sem oF] ‘spuey sIy Ul peoy sty poling [nory 


"4aY DAO] I ‘Sdamozyf jaams ‘4ay 11a 


_ jsuluTey ou ‘aoudLIedxe 

ON ‘yeoS & Oy] SuNeaTq s,oys MOU pUe ‘OUTAIP sem sys I4SIU 

Jay}O eyL,, “A[pnoy ysouye Sutyeods ‘syeos wsoYysIO oy) UT 
SpUdLIJ S.eyOpLTeD Jo sUO poyreUlol ,,‘[NId sSueNs e S.dYS,, 

“SUT[QUION pue Ieoy 

JO uoIssozdut Ue oAvS I] “3 SUTTJNW pue SuT[Np sIoM SUTYOUTOS 

JE se ‘Jensn ue) oUTTTeISAIO ssoy ‘oInd sso] ‘ULITJ SSo[ SBM SOIOA 

JOY JY} SUOATOAD 0} PouUsdes jI UO Udy) WoOIy “xoq sty ur AuseYyD 

ap [Novy JUNODSIA MBS pUe dn PoyOOT SYS ‘sdeTI]T pue sosol 
jo yonbnog e& SuIpjoy ‘sour, Suruodo ssoy) Sues sUNSLIYyD sy 


' ‘savaf puv sadoy Kui Ja], 
‘aand pun Suods $1 ano] Ku day ainssp puy 


"Uoples Ss oyLIoNsIV] poywuosaider uss SUL, 
‘aso Je []T Ajowanxe ‘ooualis 
ul uMOp jes AOU] °° * ‘Woy punose yesp Jo pury osuens e 
[99J 0} pouoes Aoy) usu) puy “Woy? plo} pey ATID owepeyy Sur) 
-AIAO poloquioular ADU, “MOU SUIySNe] Oy] ISJ WY) JO JoyVIOU 
‘JoyJO Yoro ye poyoo, Aoyy, ‘Apueos jo xoq oy) opiseq sasseis 
viedo jo red e& mes Ady} SWI) sIy} ‘Ulese SuT[IeI oy) preMmo} 
Zu], “SuryJAURe MoUyY UOY) Jo oUOU ynq sIEYysn oy) pouoNsonb 
AOU, Las0y) 1 nd pey OYAA ‘SUTTFeI oy) UO Apued piey Jo xoqg & 
sem paonou Aay) SUTY) ISIIJ SU) ‘XOQ 9U} OJUT USM Ady) UOYAA 
"SSOUYSI[OOJ nq SuTyjOU 
SBM ITeyje sjoyM oy) yey) BuTAes pue sIopfnoys Nay) surssnszys 
‘yorq sured woos Ady) nq ‘WosY} 0} pouoUSU prey JoSeueU o3e}s 
oy} 324} J0]d Oy) INOGe SuTEWIOS ynO puUTJ ppnod Ady} JT des 0} 
UOISSTUIOIUT OY} SULMP XOqQ IJIOU) Io] UTUeYSUO|] pue preyory 
“eyopIed 
UIVA PUL OF 0} BOURQUE ,SJoquOsqns oY} preMo) Jyo poLtmy Aoy) 
pue ,‘dno pjos s,ojnyy, Jo Sury ou),, IM uIsoq pynom I pres 
‘sIayjO OY) UY) pouJosUT Joyoq Apuoredde ‘uloy) Jo sUIOg *}08 
}XOU OY) SULINp Imd90 AToIMs p(nom souRgINjsIp oy} yey) pouNnsse 
siovioddns s.eyoped ‘JUSpIoul MoU popuS Ose 7B SVL 


64 VaadO AHL tO WOLNVHd dHL 


:BLIe Ws oY) poystuly pey sys 
usym pouoddey sur) sures oy) pue ‘popnedde pue pozsoyo sem 
ays ‘ele sNy], JO Zury oy) Sursuts poystuly pey epyopred usu 
‘syusuidofoasp 07d [ensn sy YIM poppoyun joe uapxes su] 

“SOUBQUS JOY SUTYLUI sem eYOTIeD :osnejdde Jo Jopuny) v 


PUUSIAY”) 21111] 4NOX 
“sano 
saop o§ ‘11 uo Spuadap afy py ‘usp woos 8uissasp Kut out 
aulo) daaau ‘yp Jo Juvjiodun jsop ‘jnovy avap Kui ‘nok ja8sof 
daAau pjim J ‘au 40f oy Op ‘aj114] D au ao] nok fy ‘uIDs8D 
aul O] yOadS 40 aaS OJ AaAaU aBDANOD ay) aADY IsnuUL NOX 
‘puaisf ajiiy] Aausof avap Ky 


Jory} & WWI] SOLIog Wo poly SuIAvY ‘UWITY aIOJoq 

POALLe pey sUTISLIYD s10yM ‘sueg 0} PoUINjol oy UdYyM PdoAradal 

pey oy Jone] oy} Jo ATUO yY4snoyY) [NoeY ‘sre9} YSIP[YyS sty Burpy 
UIBLIND & OY] 9deJ SITY JO JO, UI spueY sIy WIM Buns [NS 

j XOJ 

B se AS oq JSNU [Josue UPIARUIPURDS JEU, “pury Aue Jo 10}99}0I1d 

OU ‘pus UeWOTJUSs OU SALY 0} pres sem oys ‘aInd sem ays “Joy 
Suldoy 9q plnod sys Jeym ‘poyuRM sys JeYM palopuom oy puy 
‘porsynu oddipryg ,,jyouom apa Ayers ayy, 


‘aul 40f ‘sdamopf jaams ‘poajd sny J 
‘aul 40f ‘ssamopf jaams ‘yoads sny J 


jOUOAIOAD 0} dIQIsSUDY 
-21dWIOSUT MOU seM YCUINLN JYSTU-sUO ssOYM 13 yey) UT ySaIO\UT 
Jollq B Oye} 0} US0q PRY 94 SUOIM MOP ‘JOY Jo osnedeq SuLayyns 
JOJ OS SIOUI UDAD SEM [ORY Jey) Inq ‘JoJJns [Nowy suryeur Joy 
IIQVAISIOFUN SEM SYS Je} PoOpIsuoo oH “JaANoueUT s[QnduIa}U0D 
JO YOs dUIOS UT SUIseSUS Sem sys JYSNOY) pey 9A ‘JomoIq sy 
JO WIY 9AI9091 JOU P[NOd sys yey} JoMsueL 0} AyOepne oy) pey pey 
sys “‘JuounUIodde ue Joy seed oUNSLIYD poyse pey oy ‘pousddey 
pey yey ynoge sIOW! MOUY 0} SuNueAA “JSor ye pur s .addyiyg 
ynd 0} pojley pey poMo]oy yey) suoneuefdxo oyy, ‘yyeou III 
jo 9]8}s SuruuEye ue ut Aoumof snorsjsAu pue pides e wor yorq 
SWIOD IJOYIOIQ STY UddS peY IF] ‘sem OH{ ‘SNOLINJ udeq savy IsNUI 
‘poo pue sodoid os Ayireurpio ‘Junod sy} ‘suzIs 1onO AueUI OS 


xNnodaT U0jsVy 08 


A[UO poyxoey] ‘OUTAIp 9q 0) ‘YOTYM WstueYyooUT URLUNY SUTQns yey) 
‘swII)AYI JUSpIe JSOUI oY} ‘SUOTEMpow Jsopqns stp ‘sproYyo IMITIIp 
JSOW oY} ‘spuUnos SuNUBYOUS JsOUI 94) payeIoUNs YOM ueSJO 
yUSOTJIUSeU yeY) ‘poroyey JOACU peYy YOY JUOWMNAsUI yop yey) 
‘AUOULIBY JO] Poyeo1d YNOU! Jey) osnedoq ‘puNOsS eB Sy¥eUI JO PIOM 

B I9}]N 0} prele sem sYS “MOU SUIZUTS JOU seM YNOW Joy ng 
<, OU pUIMUD APOTOU! Sz WIM * * *,, Zuns ysnf 
Suravy ‘usdo Jey WNOU! Joy WIM poojs ueWIOM Jood sy] ‘ssou 
-pew Aq poyuney poulses sof Joy pue ured Sulztuose possaidxo 
DORI S,eYOPIVD “SOUdLINDSO BUITE}Ss yey) JO UONPUR[dxe Ue IO; 
JOyJO Yoed Yse 0} Ysnoy} se ‘syoo] poyzznd posueyoxs sioyejsods 
oy]. “JoMOY JO UOTeWIRIOXS Ue yORq POY }0U pynoo sioseueul 

OM} 94} ‘XOQ J9y} Ul ‘90U0 ye dn poo}s soUSTPNe sfOYM su], 
‘pouoddey ‘pres savy | se ‘a,quuia) 

SuIpOUWIOS © °° SUTYJOWOS ‘JUCWIOU AIOA JEU) ye ‘Uay) ISNE 


‘au puimua Kpojaul Si yi 

WADID noYyINmM jaaf J 
mADYD pinsuvn] daap v puy 
jaul puig 8utuadaa ay) sa0q 
jjads pv ayt] ‘asuv4s Moy CO 


‘pordal ajyionseyy puy 


joo} dinvaq Kyj aac] Of ‘2aAo] OF 
JU 42,0 Sda8UY] ‘dapuay puv yysiug 
‘aaa f{O AIS a4] MOY YOOT 

‘anjq dayja dapuok wodf ajiyM 

‘aul alOfaq WAOf AY] UO azD8 aU Ja‘T 


[9Uy pey jsney 
‘pouoddey s[qiiis) SurjoUIOs SdU0 je [Te Ng 
‘yduiniy MoU & Joy SULIQ 0} INOGe se jsNe YIM Jonp Joy yey) 
pouloos I pue ‘aJOUI oy} [Te popnejdde sem oyg ‘uouLIeED sem os 
‘o}LIONSIV JOSUOT OU SEM SYS ‘AJSOPOU! JO JUTe.NSAI NOYIM MOU 
sem Sunoe ox “AT[eote}soo ‘UIseIsnyjuS pue Jopre YM ‘AjOIN 
-Ud jJlasIoy sAvs eYOpPeD ‘sulmpAue SuLesy Josuo] ou ‘ssadons 

Joy pue ‘9d10A JOY ‘9dUSTPNe dy} UI SpUSTIF Joy ‘JjasIoy Jo aang 


jau asofag ssaouidd D Si], 
‘mala J Ssaouidd D SN. jON 


18 VdadO FHL JO WOLNVHd JH 


aiomM sIomod ye “j UT AIOOIOS SBA DIOUL, ‘[eINjeU JOU SVM I] 
i,,oul purmus Apojour 
si wim °° *,, pinbuen oy) Jo pus op ye Yeord yey) Jo Surueoul 
oy) sem eum ‘uo ‘ATTeoy “SUIS 0} sIQeUN sem evUuUY euOg 
Oped Jay yy) JY gq OY? Sues oYS ‘MUYAOIN uoGg WI BNAA 
se ‘uoyM JYSIU suo YduUINLN SuIpuNosel Joy poloquioulal ASU], 
‘aN, YT 218DW ay] Ul Wedde\S V[QIPSIOUT pue sajou YsIYy injIomod 
Joy UsVOSIOJ savy JOU PNOdD soUSIpNe sy} JO SJOqUIOUI SY], 
"II UT peo} B pey OSTe ‘9dI0A JOY UT SOAB}DO OM} SEI] 
ye pey oy ‘eyopJeD sy] JosuIs eB Jey) Bap! oy) Jdod0R P[Nod sUO 
OU INg ‘Jey SMOUY sUOAIOAT “YINOU! SY} UT peo} SuTyROIO B INIM 
woy) syoryye ATpojoodxoun usavoy ‘wou? ystund 0} ‘us, “YIM 
wJoq oom Aay) JUoWIdInbe [es0A 9} JO YOvar ay} puohaq A]duts 
ore yey} sajou 3uIs pue sjyoojJo AJeuIpJoenxs sonpold 0} UsAvOY 
Aq Way} 0} UdAIS DOIOA Yom oY) Osn 0} AT) ‘soURSOe JOY) 
Ul ‘pu YIZUONS TOY) SUTEWNSIOAO JO SYRISIU SARIS BY} DLW 
oUuM siosuUIs snonjduinsaid oye oJoy) Jey} poluep oq JOUULD I] 
..gnod ase Moy ‘OTJaH,, ‘Aes nod se ATIseo se ‘ASsoy 
-lO]Jo SuISUIS U90q PeY SYS , “OW PULMUS APOTOU S}I UTM °° * 
‘AJouaIOs SUISUIS U90Q Pel BUS {} POAdI[aq savy pfnom ou AA 
"JI JO PoIp UdAD SAvY SIOSUIS DUIOS 
‘Jay sIOUOYsIp SABMTe ONSUO) S,JOSUIS B UO peo} & Jey) UMOUY 
[Jam SI JE svaloymM ‘IO polOUOYsIP sAeYy }0U pPfnom suTUYSI] 
puy ‘YjNoul Joy WoI oWOS Isnf peYy Jey) peo) SuPyeoID oy} Ue) 
Ssa] Joy pastidins savy p[nom Joy Jo OI UI o8e}s 9Y) SUTYLNS 
Surmjysry ‘sieo Joy JO JVOIY) JOY SASI[IQ JOU pPfnod eYoTIeED 
‘QUOAIOAD 0} payodxoun AjayojduoD sem I ‘asIMod Jo ‘puy 
. jyVosd Jan ue yM 
JYSIU dy} JUST JOAD puod snoJOUIL]D B JO B3P9 OY} Je PRO} [ROI ON 
‘pozoneds usoq pey Adu} JI se yoy QoUSIpNe ou) UT o[dood sy], 
[FROM jpresy 9q plnos y ‘PlAsp oy) Aq “Inq Uses 9q JOU p[Nod 
peo} yey], “oUO JO pUNOS 9Y} InOQe 3nq ‘peo? poo;q-puL-YysoTy 
‘Tenjoe ue Jnoge Zuryye} JOU Ie om ‘poziyeal savy Jsnul no sy 
jor a[quuis} yey “YY {AVOID jYBoID “poyeoss 
pue xuAIey Joy JO yNO OWOD A[sNOISYyORaN uoy) ‘poyrem pey 
WI ‘Joye pue Joysry duinf pynoos 31 yey) Os yUSQ SSO] PUTY SIT ITAA 
LaNZUO} Jay UO PoyoNoOIS I pey MOF] {WOIJ SUIOD II pey sIOU MA 


93 


jpeo} 
Zuryeoio ‘Surureoy ‘snowouesa ‘AyTeos ‘Apseys ‘snospiy y [peor 
Be‘ * * 9W0d pey YNoW yey) Woly * °° pey you! Jey—slNos 


syqdn pue uonows ony soars ouoje yey} UoOAvOY JO A oy) 


XNOdF] U0jSVD 78 


posuss Ady], ‘Wsoy} spisoq ‘Woy puTYysq ‘Way) puNorIe ‘azo sem 
JOYS oY} ‘SOX “PROYoIOJ SITY JJO JeEOMS JY} OdIM 0} JoryoJoypueY 
SITY INO UdyR}) pey pleyoRy ‘WeoIQ yey) YJwoUSG pUS UO poo}s 
pey sey s,UTULeYoUOW] JO Moy Y “WeaIq sIy yoy pey Ay], 
"JSOYS OY} JO DOUONTJUI Jap oy) JopuN Useq pey Aoy) MOU 
SJUSWIOU [BIOADS JO} BSNeDOQ SNOLIO}SAUI DIOUI oy} [[e seM jeu} 
ysingue ue UIM Woy} Poy[ly pey Woprour o[qeor[dxour ‘o[qrposoUt 
yey, ‘oyed AIOA oJOM prleYoTY pue umueyoUO|] ‘OAL XOG UT SIO 
-BEULUI OM} SY} 0} SSOTPUS PoUdes Jey) SpuOddS dIqLUIOY May VW 
‘SpuOdas Maj B po}se[—soovjJ pousyYysLy 
POMOYs soLeJouMUJodns [eIOANS s10yM ‘SSUIM OY) UI pue oases 
oy} UO UOTSNFUOD ‘ooUDIPNE oY) UT }NUIN) ‘10LI9} ‘UOTeUID}SUOD 
‘yeold ‘pvo}—Iejop Ul SUIqLIOsep udeq SAPY | ey) SuIIpAIOA 
éYeoro 
31q B YONS poureyuod SAY YNOW ap] e YONs prnod MOF, ‘yey 
o}qusneyXoul s Jomfuod eB ye BuLeys pliyo & sy] ‘JUOUIApTIMog 
UI YNOU! Joy ye SuLIV}s seM OH “JOU P[Nnod oy ‘ON ‘pouoddey 
savy plhod Sury) e YoNS MOY Joy |[]e} plnoo oy oqXkeuI—Joy 
Yo] JOU peYy oy ‘JOY WIM TNS sem oy JO “WWUOWAazZeUIE YsSIpTIyO 
‘sso[punog JO UOTSsaIdxa sFQequOsopul ue YIM Joy ye BUTyOO] 
SBM OY :JOY YIM poase eyuoT snposeD Jey) poulses WI -puy joy 
WOIJ SUIOD JOU PeY YeoId yey) ‘ou ‘ON “Jsoj0Id pue osuayop-jjas 
JO oINjsos & UT JOIN) JOY 0} SJOSUIJ pouojjys Joy ynd oyg ‘aouss 
-OUUT S,d910A Idy JO soUBINSSe snooURUOdS & IOyJeI JO ‘agnor 
B ‘UoNda}0I1d Suryoes YSnoy} se punore poyoo, Ajaye1adsap sys 
“Qd10A Jay Aq poAerjoq A][eUuIUILID jou pue 
‘seo Joy Aq poalaoop U90q pey Ys Jey} ‘dSIOU [eUJOJUI yeu) preoy 
Ajjeor Jou pey Sys 3eY} J[OSJOY DOUTAUOD 0} Pol sys * °° “oIsNW 
[9S sem punos Vy {punos & poles oq UdAD HW plnod {ajou & 
peed 9q pUNOS }eY} pnod yng ‘YINOU! Joy Jo NO aWIOd a}0U jeI) 
preoy Ayyeor pey sys Ji poropuom eyOpIeD spuodsds Moj B JO7 
jO[qIsusYysIdUIOSUI SEM PRO} JEU, ~*~ MOU SBOIOyM ‘31 
puvjsiopun pue ‘pouoddey yeym des 0} o[qe Udeq SAPY prnom Adu} 
‘IOAOMOY ‘9S¥d VU) UT “OPAL SP SNUDA SU} JO SUITE dU} Jjo dy01Q 
yey) sydoyse}ed ou} possoujIM pey Ady) JI yay oAeY prnom Ast} 
UONCUID}sUOD JO PUTY 94) sem J “Josue UY) Joye ‘UeyTe pue 
UONeUIN}sUOD pomoys Ad} ‘9dI0A JOoJIod Isy SuIMOUY ‘eyoTIeD 
YIM Jng ‘Jay peocog savy prhom Aay} ‘1a8UIs JoujOUR 0} pousoddey 
pey Suit) e Yyons J] “SUIMOIS sem DOUDIPNe dy) Ul INUIN) oY], 
jeyopse 
powyseymisao ‘3uLedsop ‘poyojaim ‘100g ‘“peo) jeu} puUTYyoq 


€8 VdaadO AHL tO WOINVHd 4HI 


SULIOMSUP ‘SUTTTRJ SPA ‘IOT[IBPULYD 9Y} JO SSBU SNOULIOUS OU} ‘JOT 
-opueyo ayy, “AID s[qQLI9} & paloyn pue dn poyoo, yIoq ASU], 
| ..iFolfopueyo 
oy) UMOP 3UIIq [][,o4S ‘}4sTIUO} SuIsUIs s,oys ABM SUL,, 
:O910A SsaTyNoUT ‘a{qIssoduut sty ‘So10A 
sty preoy Apounsip Aowj ‘sJeo Ys Moy) ut ‘Alfeuly puy jWo) 
pulyoq asojo Surysney sem ysoys oY], ‘punose UIN) oO} WWSuUSTs 
oy) pue s8eIno0d oy} YIOG poyoe] sJoseueW OM) 9} ‘s}yeos IY) 
ul yorq poduinjs ‘seoidn snoisipoid e& oyu JsINq VoUNTpHe SU], 
‘poulnsal pey 00} peo} su], 


ar se [jyeorg] Apojau SJ1 YUM 
wapyo [jxeoI)] Moyne jaf J 
[jyeoIQ] wuvys pnsunj daap v puy 


‘punogyjeds poulees osye sousrpne su], 


‘aul pulg suluada ay) Sa0q 
jjads v ayy ‘aduv4js MOY CE 


‘poreodde pey peo} ou} yor 
JO pus ot} 3e SoU] Ou) pouNsal ays ‘ATTeOTOIJEY ‘ApoAvIg ‘poddojs 
pey sys o1oyM jUIod oy) WoIZ UO OS JOU pIp eVoTIeD Ing | 
«<{UO OF) [UO OH,, 
eyopIeD 0} no AIO DIOA poyoyo S.preyory presy suoAIOAY 
‘IOISVSIP OY} JO JYSIOM 9Y) YEOU 
-0q SuIAvoy Apeolye sem soo [elLoseueul s[qnop Moy, jposins 
SEM OSNOY sy], {Woy} 0} W posmmoid pey ysous dU], jJa}sesIp 
® Bunoadxe useq prey Ady} puy ‘Jo}seSIP Jo OS SWOS JOFJ [eUsIS 
OY} USATS SAR ISNU. UPLIOM YST[IAOp Jeu) “yeoId Joy YAK “JOY 
OZIUZODAI JOU pIp Ady} JI se BYOPeD Je poyoo, Ady) ‘xoQ JAY 
jo Sulprer oy) JOA Suluvay] ‘ysoys ay) Aq youye Jopun atom Ao) 
yeu} yay ASW], “WINIIOYpPNe dy} UI spuNOs JOyjIO oY) [Te SAOge presy 
seM JOIOY JO UONeWIE[OXS o[qnop Mey], ‘:pousddey yeolo oy], 
jueddey 
0} SUIOS SEM JEUAA “SIOU) seM oY MoU AOU) JSOYS Oy) [[9) JUST 
yey} pJoM wv Avs JO AOU! & OAPI 0} Pree alom AU, “AD 0} prese 
aIoM Jng AemMe UNI 0} poyuRm Adu} ‘porquian Aoyy, *xOq ou} UI 
auoye jou o1em Ady) yey) UTeLII0 alom Aoyy, jMouy Aoy) MOU pue 
‘yuosaid sit SUDDUIOS UZYM SMOUY DUO MOYSWIOS jdSO[D OS “UIOI} 
0} SOD OS—SuIyJeaIg WIIY pIeoy AU], “WY SUISOS jNOUIM WIY 


XNOATT] UOjJSV) 8 


‘uorelo TeIouny A[TUO 
Jay SBM JY] ,,jPedH{ $,9dIOINUO|D ve UO SO[Ty puBsNoY], porpuNnyy 
OM],, :aul[pesy sty) pey siodedsmou oy} Jo ouo Aep jxou oy) 
pue Apuesul perp syg jJoysn s.jsoys oy ‘AnD owrepeyy sovdor 
0} UssoYyo pey psVYyoTY suo oy} ‘OsI] JOY UI SWIN IsNJ oy) JOJ IWS 
yey} BlodO oY} 0} SW0D pey OYM URUIOM JOOd ay} Jo peay ou) UO 
[laf Jolfspueyo sy] ‘yop suo pue soumMfur Aue oJom SIDq 
‘OWT} ot} Jo sIodedsmou oy} pear ued 
HI WNOGE sNOLIMS ase OYM SSO], “UleSe dATTe SUTOD JUDAS OLIO)STY 
yey} oyeUr 0} aJoy osodind Au jou st yy ‘apadurejs ptm e pue 
otued sem Joy} sje] JUSMIOW Y ‘synoys puke suIvaIOS ssafUNOD 
JO SPIE OY) UT syeos BNSAYDIO sy) JO o[PpwU oy) O}UT poyseIO 
pue sulisd oy Wo posunjd I ‘sO10A oTUEWeS yeY} Jo [Ted ou) 


Ss VdaadO AHL JO WOLNVHd JHL 


98 


"WI NOge Ye} sJoseUeUI OY} OYLUI 0} prey sem 7 ING 
‘santiqisuodsos AUeUI PoATOAU! pey Jolfepueys sy} Jo [Tey SUL, 
‘gov0d UI WO) OARST JOU P[NOM Jey} sje] 
jo yueid e 0} Aaid uoljey pey Jo ‘1ySnoy) a[qeurOoge suIos Aq 
ponsind 3utaq oom Aoy) Jt se ‘ayed syaoyd Joy} pue pomoq speoy 
TIdy) WIM ‘BZuTUMOI ‘aseIs oy} ssoJoe SUTTEM UsIS SOUITOUIOS 
arom AOU], ‘WseIsnyjuS pue Ajores [je Iso] pey Aoy :woy) poziu 
-80001 JOSUO] OU SpUdL Nay], ‘pordnssoeid Apeoss sioseueUl oy} 
punoy op ‘soueseoddesip Joy Jo uoneuefdxs ue Joy yse 0} eladO 
OU) 0} JUSM oY Y9O]I,O SAI} JNOge Je UOOUIAe sUQ “JOY INOUPIM 
pouiojiod sem ssnpq ‘wreisoid Aue uo sueu Jay BuUTZ0S JOU 7e 
poLom oureseq A[[euly oy pue MOIS 0} PONUTUOD MOIIOS STE 
‘WI JO] UOSeaI dy} Sson3 
0} 91qe Useq 104 JOU peYy 94 YSsnoy) ‘WIY YM suOTIefOI [Te JJO 
yeolqg 0} UONeUTULIO}op Joy pue pUTW Jo ouTeIy Joy MOUY OY SOUTS 
‘postidins Ajreynonsed jou sem oY IS YYW “Jomsue OU PdATOal 
pue ssoIppe Ss snio[eA PUIV]A] Je Joy 0} 9JOIM OP “BdUOSqe S,dUT} 
-SLIYZ) Jnoge PIUII9UOS 9q 0} ‘aSINOD JO ‘}sIIF oy) SEM [NORY 
“soouvysuINdIID 
g[qeoydxour pue oeweip yons Jopun Joye] ou suIOs poLNd50 
yey} voNONpge snowy sy) YIM posnjuoo oq jou ysNUT “UOn 
-OWNWIOD jNoyIM sovjd yoo) yom ‘oouvseoddesip IsIIE SIL 
‘aso 
aroymAure Jo viodQ oY) ye Uses US9q JOU peY [[HS oYs Jaye] syoom 
OM} pue ‘aouvuojied oy) Joye poseoddesip oeeq oulsiyD 
‘TIE [[9} BHOpTeD “oUOAIOAS JO} peq SBM ONINAAT OIOVAL LVHI, 


wieySnoig snoriaysAy] aU], 


6 


‘uosiod snopndniosun ‘snoisaj}sAul sulos Jo sostuidsajue snororused 
94) 0} B[qeJou[NA AyeMoned Joy spew pey ‘UIIY 0} powloos HW 
‘SII? [[@—pleAoaels oy} Ul odds oy} BuLIMp jjasuNy Joy uses 
pey oy se ‘saouRjsumMom feuondsoxo ulTeyI99 UI WI pleoy cys 
woyM Joy posunjd oIsnur YOM OUT 9383S SNeISOO ATOUNITQNs sy) 
Ajjetsedso pure ‘1ayyey peop Joy Jo syysnoy) yuR}sUOD Joy ‘spuasoy 
JO 9[91I9 B YIM pooypTlys Joy popunouns pey jeu) suIsulIq 
-dn oanfutid oy “[nos sno[npaio pue sjeuonayye Joy ‘uoneU 
-IZVUII ofquyOXe JOP “UBUTHY [[Ns sem ‘Feorfoqeip opyI] e sdeysod 
ysnoy? ‘yey) UONeUTYSeU JO OS oUIOS JOOdSNS WIY speul JOOUr 
a4} JO Spo oY) ye JOY YIM UONESIOAUOD STY pue ‘WOOI BuTSSoIp 
Joy Jo 1OOp sy) Ysnom) preoy pey oy 3UM ‘sOLIOg Je UdeS 
pey oy ey ynq ‘oy 90s 0} JduIOQe AUR OYLU 0} WIIY UOppIqio; 
pey Joyo, s,ouNsYyD A[sUONS MOY palequIOWIoI oF “OUSLY 
jO SMOU JO} Yse pue snus[eA eWe, 0} OS plnomM ay ‘WYSIwW WYK 
SWIOD ‘Jey) poploop pue ‘s}YsnoY) JoquIOS UI paqiosqe ‘eiodg 

OU} JO] SH “Hoey 0} [eNyeu UWldas JOU PIP SoUAaSGe s,oUNSLIYD 
<, SSOU]]I JOY JO} pIOM I3y 

YOO) 9M “Joy ISNT) OM JOUIS pue “WIY JOJ yse 1, UpIp sys ‘ON,, 

G10 0} JOJDOp BIedQ oY} puas },UPIp noX,, 


«¢ MOU },u0p aM, 
 GTOY YIM JoyeUr oY} s.JeyM,, “POUMTE[OXe oY , ,{AOIS 8,9S,, 
“tpeoy 


jo suoseol JO} WI poysonbol pey sys souls ‘poyIUMIyuN sea 
WI yeu) plo} ApPIND sem oY ‘jSeT P[nom 3 Suoy; Moy poyse oy 
USA, “9UOSgR JO SALI] B UO SPM Ys Jey) patjdor Ajdutis Aouy, 
‘OUNSUYD mNoge Woy} Yyse 0} owe sy UOYM AUZeY op [Nory 
JUNOISTA POAToooI AOY) MOY OUTSeUTT 0} Asvd SIOJOIOU} SI I] “‘UON 
-Isod Joy 0} posoO}saI udeq pey oyM ‘ATID owepeP YIM 3da0xo 
‘souctjedut yeors pomoys Aoy} suoejor AepAIoAd IIo) Uy 
‘purur 
JO 9}8}S TOY} porojye SAPY JsNUI JoTfopuRYd oY) JO [TeJ oy) UeY) 
QSIOM USAD SUTYJOWOS Jey} PSAdIjaq sIoquosqns AueUI 7eY) ‘9]QIS 
-USYOIGUIOSUT pUe SNOLIO}SAUI OS ‘d}0WIAI PUR JUSIATJIp OS poulses 
UMULIeYUO|] pue preYyorYy su sty) Sump yey) Aes Jsnu | puy 
"Ja}sesIp Jo juIod 
SY} poyoval J dJOJaq I PoIpoulal pue UONPIOLIQ}Ep yey) pojoojop 
SARY p[hoys souo jUosoId oY) JO SIOSeURU IOULIOJ oy) JOURO 
ynq ‘uoIsuedsns jo suvoU 94) JO UOnEIOLIQ}op Aq pasned yop 
-1998 UB SBA J JVY) PopNjoUOd pey UONVSNSoAUl [eIOYJO su], 


£8 Vado FHL dO WOLINVHd FHL 


SEM SUTISLIYD “ITeyd & OJUI YULS [NORY ‘ACUISIP YIM SUIODIDAC 
«DISH Jo jasuy om ‘AYAA,, 
‘Inoey Jood pos ,.{jwids Suipmns yey A,,, 
<< Wds 
ZuIpin3 Joy YIM s.o4s,, ‘ATES poromsue Ape] plo oy) puy 
‘poyse Apyornb oy ,.{0US SI oI0qM,, 
‘SULI SNOUTIIO Ue peYy BdUd}US Jse] SIU) ‘[nNORY OF 
| _ SUNSIYD Inoge ye} ues OM 
MON jWoAvoy Aq jas udeq ALY ISN NOA ‘YY,, “WY 0} spuey 
yoq Jno Surpjoy ‘AyNJAof pres oys ,,jAUseYD op IMdIsUO;,,, 
“O¥Np[TO pue ‘ond ‘reapo os us0q 
Kau) pey ‘joey ur ‘oJojoq Joaou ‘pose you pey soko Joy nq ‘MOU 
oNYM sem Trey JoF{ ‘o0Ry A[PUTY s,snueeA eURP sem ‘OAODTe 
ue JO SMOPeYs dy} UI ‘MUS OY SUTY) ISI] OY} sIOYM WOOIpPaq 
yep jsoulye ue oyu udye} sem [NoeY ‘Io}e] SoyNUTU SAT] 
_, Joy Woddns Iesuo] ou [IM 
S39[ Jood Jay ssnedeq ‘WIOOIpag Joy UT ATUO NOA SATI00I UBD OYs 
yng,, ‘preul oy) pres , ‘Is ‘Joy asndxo 0} NOA syse ouepey,,, 
"Joyo 
YORS pose] Joey s,oUNSLIYD pue snLisjeA JOssajolg jo s}ey 
-Iod yoIyM UI WoOor BuIA] paysturny Ajosreds pue poyysiy ATWIp 
B OJUI UTY pe] pue poUINjal prewl SY], “SUOT WeM 10U PIP 9H 
‘pres oy , ‘pres AW Joy aye} OSeold,, 
"SIOJISIA DAIONOI 0} OTQuuN 
pue ‘paq Ul ‘[[I se OYS Jey) PO} SEM OP ‘SNLOTeA SUIEpey] das 
p[noo oy JI payse oF “SUTUDAD DUO WOOI BSUISSaIp s,oUNSLIYD 
JO No BuTWIOD UDdes peYy sy pleut oy) Aq poucdo sem JOOP 34] 
“SOIIOJOI A -SOP-dWeG-aN}ON 
any oy) uo jJuounrede oI] Oy) JO [[EqQIOOp oy} Sue sy se 
poquien oF {Wy [][9) 0) Surosd snuofeA eUREPY Sem JEU, 
“Inojy 
SI OM} snd OM} Jey) JOSIOJ WY SyeUI OU P[Nod ppIoM sq} 
ur AJO}S STYSeIULT JSOW OY} JY) pUe UOISIOI Jo sioyeW UT 
Ayuo yJemjeutodns oy) Ul poAdijaq oY Jey} ony [fs sem WF Inq 
‘oeeq ousYyD poweu ydwAu ueIAvUIpUeOS & YIM SAC] UT 
SPM OY [je sAoqe pue ‘poouep suT[gOsS YOM UI so[e} UOJoIg 
plo Jo puoy AIdA sem oy ‘syodse [eoJOyJO }SOW! S}I UT SISNUT 
PoAo] pue yood v sem oY ‘pur punos AIDA & pey [NORY JO; 
“SNL[e A 
BUIRJy 90S 0} ABM SIY UO pony oy se JjOswTY poyse oy 
uonsanb a[qisuas oy) sem WY {OWOd0q SYS PeY WITOTA SOU 


XNOAI] U0ISVS) 98 


cc GOT 
SBM SUNSTIIYD JYSNoY} Nod pue ‘Sunod a1,noxX ‘MoUY },UpIp nox 
‘yey mo },ust pousddey yeym ‘Te Joyy ‘ozisojode | pur 
‘poysne] J osneseq Alsue aJ,noX ‘yey} oy] yno yyem jsnf }.ueo 
nOX,, “pres ays ,,‘UMOP JIS osSeo[q {SUIOp NoOA ale jeuA,), 

. ‘A[QUUIS) Sutazyns 
‘poysnyy o0eF sTy WIM dn poojs [noey “YyI90) poarosaid-fjom 
Joy Surmoys ‘A[pno, poysney, Apel, plo panjeu-poos oy) puy 
,, J9Y 0} DAO] JO UONBIEpOOp & OpeUl P,NOA pres oys,, 
ooGABS OYS PIP UMA LATTOY,, 
.jAep AIaA9 Nod yNoge sUI 0} Ye} 0} posn oyS,, 
"QdIOA MO] 
B Ul poyse oy ,,{OW SOI] OUNSIIYD YyUIy} NOA soyeu Jey A,, 
“Suisuey Aq Yeap SNOLID}sAUI sTY aJOJoq 
Apsoys usAts pey jonbng ydosor yey) wry Jo uoNdiosep sno 
-IDABPed SY) SurTTeI01 a19M OYM spuLYsseis Jo dnosd & reoU o3e}s 
ou) UO PolOSUT] OY USYM SUTUDAD OUO SIVA SIY 0} DWIOD prey 
UMOUSI ssoUM ‘}sous viodO ou) pue ‘sOLIOg UT IJeye YsIY oY} JO 
sdo}s oy} UO sIeWYSIU JO pUTy & UI pasduNI[s pey oy peoy-s WeOp 
oy) ‘Ajasueys os wy 0} usyods prey suNsuyD woyM noge 
OISNJAY JO Josuy ou} ,,‘Ids SuIpms,, s snwoyeA ewe, UO WT} 
SNSO} pue s}YsNOY) SITY 79]JOO 0} YMOIJIP # Surpuy sem of] 
"YSIS & UNM pres off ,," °° “OU SOX] OYS,, 

;, 00} NOA soy] sUTSTIYD 
puy ‘[noey Imorsuopy ‘Mouy NOA ‘NOA dy¥I] [ “JOyIe] s,ouNsYD 
WO W Suuesy Joye ‘ayoy] aI] Jo AJO}S oY} OUI ]][9} 0) OWRD 
no usyM pip nod se ‘spuey MOA oul DAIDH *AOG INIT & dIOM 
nod usym op 0} pasn nok Aem oy} ‘dU 0} DSO] BWIOS jng,, ‘Ysner] 
Addey & U}IM pres oys ,,jnoA uo yUNOD UR | MOUY | ‘SOZ,, 

* "soho 
onjq-Ays Ajduro yim ‘sofa onjq-Ays syed yim Ape] porrey-ojTyM 
Areulpsoeyyxo yey) punole pue ‘UIOOI oy) puNnose ‘wWIY puNoJe 
[TUM 0} SuTuUIsIq sem BUTUJAIOAD JEU} WIY 0} powlses }I 
pue pasnyuod aJou pue sJOUI SuTUIODAq aJ0M ‘UTeya0UN ATYSIY 
Apeoiye ‘oursiiys ynoqe seapi sty asneseq ‘Burkes sem ay 
yeyM Surmouy Apprey ‘posJomsue oy , ‘oul UO JUNOD Ud NOX,, 

‘pres oys ,,‘ouoAuP ][9} },USNUI NOZ,, 
"JUSTIS 9Q 0} 
WITY 98IN 0} sdi] Joy 0} JOsUTJ Joy SuNInd pue wry je surpMuUs ‘poq 
Joy UT aJoy} AP] snuaeA eUIe] pue ‘oIsN| Jo josuUY oy) IDIM 


68 VaadO 4HL dO WOLNVHd dHL 


Ape] p[O posuelap e pure Jo[ppyy snonnsiodns e Xq dn yysnolq [Ns 
B UI poonpold 9q JYSIUM yey) pUTUT Jo d)e)}s Oy) PozI[eol MOU 3PT 
‘eI9dQ SY} 38 SWIOOI BUISSAIp .SIOZUIS JISIA 0} SuTUDAS 
AIQAD USARSY WOT UMOP ued OYM JWIds B UT yey yazIod 
‘gidumts 1oy Aq pozep 193 9H “WIY payjyeq ssoussayayins yons 
;, UdAROY 
Uj,, ‘Ppolomsue pue soho Joy poslvl SYS “pURUIOp JoOJOSIpUT 
yey) Aq postidins Ajrefnonsed wises jou pip Ape] plo oy] 
<, SOAT] JIds yey) OIOYM SUI []9} []IM NOA ‘ouepeP,, 
-APLIOUING 
yeois wim oyods oy oun siy} pue ‘urese dn pooys ory 
., UI[OIA S Joye Joy UO snuvzvT fo uoy 
-Jainsay ayy Ked 0} postutoid oF “SARIS S Joye] Joy ye ‘alow 
PIVASARIS OY) UI WTY JOU 0} JOY po? oy :APoRxo JOU ‘TJOMA,, 
gids SuIpms Joy YW SOldg 0} JUNM DUS {UO,, 
., Waids SuIpms Joy YIM oa) JUOM 
ays UsyM ‘SOLI9g UT JY) [[e NOA pjo} p,dys WYSNoy) | ‘sopisog,, 
., Teameu 
Ajuo $.y1,, ‘IodsiyM e UI JsOWye ‘pooIse oy , ‘Sok ‘soX,, 
., Jemmeu ATUO sj] “IaAdIOy AeMe 
OS SIsny JO IWA1Idg oy} oyeU 0} JULM } USZOp ays ‘puE}sIopuN nod 
‘OG “JOAOIOJ ABML OS Poy SAS OSTe OH [Te SJeUL, ‘Urese WwIY 
398 JOADU pP,oYys ‘pole sys Jt yey) sAes ysnf oH * °° “OY SuIp 
-PIqIOJ INOUM JOY SpIqioy oy ‘YO,, ‘UoIssaidxa eInyeu APOoFIOd 
B® YIM pres sys ‘oy UO poxly ozes oBeaes oy} Jo aeEMeUuc 
"JUDSOUUT 00} SEAL OYS Je} IO} OH 
"[NJayey SoulOd9q FI JY} SNONSUOU! OS SUIDdS SOUDDOUUT SAISSIOXS 
UdYM SOUT} ae SIO], “A[IOIOI} DIOUI JOY ye POYOo] IAey OU pynod 
oy ‘I9Y INOADP O} pajyueEM peY oY J] “JOY 9}Iq 0} YSnoU} se ‘prem 
-IOJ jsniy) Mef sTy TIM snwoyeA vue, PJeMO} pouLs] [noey 
<6 POLWeul 
193 0} JOY Spiqioy orsnyy jo ydg ayy, {I Sprqioy oH,, 
<< FE SPIqioy ay “SoX,, 
«7 uresy,, 
<< DISH, JO WIdg sy} Jo osnedagq, , 
« GPOLLBUL 303 oYs },Ued AY AA [EY MOUY 3,UOp | ‘ON {IeUM,, 
<,(0} poyuem ays JI UdAS 
poLueuwl jos 1, UP[NOdS ouNSUYyD MOUY NOX jjOU asINOd Jo ‘ON,, 
“QOIOA 
poyoys e ul ‘A[quJosIul poyse [noey .,jpasesua ous sy7,, 


XNOLJT UOjSUS) 06 


poos: wIy ouop pey s}9eT)s sy) YSNoIM) Wem YIMS sy ‘os UaAT 
“aINjVIO [NJWaS0p AlyeoruRyes ‘uozeIq B SEM SUS 
‘QUNSLIY) JO} SY ‘J[OSWITY pyo A[snotmny oy ,,jAUSeYD op yUNOD 
-SIA ‘ore noA ueul SuNOA SUTUISe ‘JUROTFIUSISUI ‘aTII] ‘poyoomm 
B JVUM,, “QeIOsMM pue snornoipi A[TYsNoIoY) 3[93 [nowy ‘a[TUIs 
poyojye ‘ATTIS B UTM Sues OYM IOUS) SNOIPI owos A[poyqnopun 
SCM OH [UTY 90S pl[nod oF jMOU WIY MOU oF joIsny Jo wads 
oy {Jopued sye~noevwu pue ‘Ayordus ‘g}oareu Jay Aq Bury) 
-AIOA9 Ure[dxa 0} ‘JUBISUT Ue JOJ USAS ‘poLy Savy oY Pinos MOP 
{And pue sdus90UUI Joy Ul poAdtjeq SARY 3Y Plnood MOP jen 
B jJsuIese peoy sIy suIsueq ‘J[osuYy Surystund oy] yoy oH 
| ‘aqeys [nynid 
B Ul BSNoYy S,JayoIQ STy 0} poyeM oF Zyse oy pfnoo alow 
yEYM—UONCULIOJUL poyueM pey of] ‘YSnoue Mmouy Apeole op 
poy] OF “UNY ye ZurySne, Appremur sem oys ye) yoy pue sdiy 
Joy UO OTIS UTR] B MES OY JYSNOY) SY USy) Inq ‘Joy UONsoNb 
0} jnoge seM OY JUSWOU B JO “Preul. oY} WIM d0vJ-0)-90eT 
JIeSuITY pUNOJ OY WOO] SUTATT. ou} YSnoIy) SuTyeM sem oy sy 
“peoy 
OU} UI 4S oInb Jou oq JYSIW oY JI palopuoM sys Jey) ATPoLLMY 
OS Joy JO SABO] YOO) pue ‘pres oy ,,‘puvisiopun | ‘sod ‘soz,, 
..gPUBISIOpUN NOX ‘poqinjsip },uaIom AoW], ‘ouO 
OU $,d10Y} ‘SUTUIOU! SY} UT IYSTO ye ‘eIodGQ oy) Je Ng ‘Jeoy pfnom 
UOAIOA “O[QISsodult 9q prnom j ‘JuOUNIeEde PITT sty) UT ‘aIOTy 
"WOOI SUISSOIP JOY UT Joy 0} Woy) saved oY OS SysoM OM} [HUN 
dn ynq ‘nod [[9} },ued |] ‘WIY WIM JJo oUOS Sos Jey) MON,, 
CUS ZSUOSSO] Joy SAIS yds OUT,, 
‘Tey WSU} 39] 
Ajireom uoy) ‘aredsop Jo ommjsoS peolq & UT SULIe STy pastel oH 
., SUOSSO] JOY SUIAIZS URsoqg OY OUTS 
SuJUOU! saIy} poos ev useq S.jI ‘sox ‘SIUOU sem) nNOGy,, 
. Gg luids yey) youl sys pip O8e Suoy MOP,, 
“SQAOJS STY Je possn} oF] 
., ato SWI0D 3a NOAA AGM 
MOUY },UOp J ‘1 IQnop nod JI puy,, ‘poseyno AjZurmoes ‘Ape 
PO dy} pouTepOxe , juoAvoy ul soejd Aur Aq I Jeams | ‘sox,, 
‘Apdnaqe Suryse 
djoy jou pinod oy ,.¢[13 s[qesouoy ue [Ws oUNSLYD sy,, 
“OAvy 
WYysrwu 3 ssousnbesuod oy} Jo JsNoy) oy) ye poloppnys oy pue 


16 Vado FHI dO WOLNVHd 4HL 


jtey poaoy 
ay MOY ‘poH Jesq “WOOI ZuUIssaIp Joy JO JOOP 3Y) YZnos Id10A 
S$, UeUI OY) 0} Pousjsi] Jy Uy oUOp peY 3 se ‘ApuaforIA ZuIpunod 
uesoq YeoY SIY pue ,,joUNsUYD $3, “IYsnoy Ajayerpourunt ap 
‘goed Suryyem & Je Sasioy S}I WIM ‘UITY preMmo} oUTeD ATMOyS 
pue JoUIOO Oy) PON) slIVq WOI SUTWIOS odeLLIVD e UdYAL INOY 
ue J[eY ULY) SSO] SSIDIOXO STUDISAY JeY} UI poseSud UI0q prey 3H] 
"Wem WOU} 
dooy 0} Jooj sty Suldurejs uvSoq ‘ajqissod se yonur se JjasumTy 
SuIpty ‘pue ‘yno 303 ‘peol opis sp] B JO JauIOD oy} ye APUHed 
WITY JOJ EM O} JOALIP oY} Plo} off ‘Uoour om Aq paryst] ApYysiq 
SEM PUL PoLIOSOp PoUldes pol SY], “YSU pod AjI9N}IIG & sem I 
‘9SINODOOI 
sdureyosuoy oy)? JO puejyspuvis oy) pulyoq oseleD pany e 
UI SBAA 9Y YDOII,O0 us} Aq pue ‘AyJeo oddijtyg 149] 2 ‘uoTUedWIOS 
AWOO[S B& sem sy Aja}eUNIIOJU, “ssaNsIp sy jOSIOJ 0} ‘soos 
UOISsoIdxo 94) se ,,‘omseojd JO PUIMpTYM oU},, OJUT JfOsuITY 
MOY} 0} Apeor ‘o}SeY PIIZUSJ WIM soyjJo[D posueyo jnory 
‘9sInodaoRI sdureyosuo0 7] 
oy} JO puejspueIs oy} pUTYOq ONnUSAR poaylosap eB Suoye aoed 
AJOINSIO] B 3 SUIAOW sem SeLULD SY], “SMOpPRYs dt} UI AMBIT 
ondea eB se ATUO SIQISIA Sem ‘IOAOMOY ‘JOY YIM UU OU] “pozu 
-30001 Apreoyd us0q pey SYS puY IYSI~UOCOU WYSIIq seM oIOy], “Ie 
JYZIU plod ay) Jo syyeoiq dsap Surye) Apuoredde ‘uedo Mopulm 
oy) WIM Weysnolq & UI Uses US0q PRY SYS *d0U0LINDDO aoe;duoUI 
-WI0D B SBM PT ‘Te Joye ‘puy “sunsojoid poddojs ay yey) s]IEJep 
9sioold Yons USAIS sem JY Udy} 3Nnq ‘3 SADIIDQ 0} posnjar [nory 
JSNJ JY “ouUso[NOg op slog oy} UI oNUSAe Ue UO ‘aJ0Jaq JYSTU 
oy} URW B YIM Uses Ud0q PRY SUIVOIpP sTY Jo Apey oy} Jeu) WY 
Sulyjo) Aq purlw sity posueYyd Jou pey yUNOD dy) JI UOTEWAUT oy) 
pourjoop savy Ajqegoid p[nom jnory ‘aredsap ysoyj & Yyons TIA 
‘Joreqed eB ye IOUUIP 0} WY dye} 0} porayjo oddiymyg juno; 
‘ponid oq 0} SuNeITINY 00} st 3 YOTM JOJ sIOWjO 
pue Jo JSBOQG JOU SOP SUO zeY) SSUTY) OWOS de SIO], “OIsNJy JO 
yds oy) nNoge UWTY [][9} 0} JURJON[aI USSG DARY P[NoM NoRYy yey) 
SI }ORJ oy} pue ‘suoNeUE[dxe Aue Joy BSuTYyse ynoWM ‘A]TeUJAJed 
wy powosutos oddiryg “Aqeq & oy] ‘SULIE sty O}UT [Tey J[OSUITY 
39] [Nowy pue alow) sem oddyiyg JomoIq sly Ng ‘sqos sIy 
SUINS pue poq sty UO JjasuITy SuTMoIY) Jo ATUO JYsNoOy) oy WoO! 
STY OJUT JUOM OY USYAA “OPI & UIeIQ PayeoyJOAO SITY pofoood pue 


XNOA] U0jSYD 43 


JUBAIOS OY} WU} pressey OS sem 9dvJ SITY pue possorpuN jou pey 
OH ‘peq siy Uo Zunnys WIY puNnoj xoyeA SITY ‘ZUTUIOW }XOU OU], 
jplo szeoX ou0-A}UOM) Sem OY PUB SUTAp Jo J4SNOU} oH 
_.jJunos },uop noxX jJeoddesiq jAeMe 0D,, 

LWITY 19810} 0} sem Poyse 

ays [je uoym souasald sty Jo Yyovordal ay} YM JOY psyuoIUOS 

Ajueppns oy pey 34s yum Ag {ued Joy UI JasuTY pooed 
oy pey AU * * [Teo SI SuoMsue NOUN possed pey sYS 

LuesoLINod B Jo [NOS 

ou} pey sys UdsYM POoYpTiys Jo saXo Ieapd oY} SAY 0} USOppIqsoy 

2q UBWIOM B },Upnoys puy {1900p pue Astso0dAy 0} s}TUI] poloes 

9q SIO} 1, UP[NoYS ZJOAo] snoriajsAu B YIM ‘WeYsNoIg sNOLINxNy] 

B ur usu AreyT{Os ou) UT Aq ssed 0} JopIo ul ‘A}SOpouwl JO [TOA 

yurd oy} YIM JOS} JOA09 0) Apvor skemye ‘peoysroy Ays B Yyons 

pue syooyd ysoly yons oAvy 0} poou Aue AT[eol aay) sep, jSoAo 
STY IGA [OOM 9U} pay[nd pey oyLids UBIALUTPURDSG OPT] STY MOP 

" juRWIOM & posidsep sy MOU pure jaSue Ue poAoT 

pey oY ‘“Wesy sty uey) peap sour Jo Japjoo sem SuION ‘YSU 
peop ‘ojed oy) pue peol pjod ‘ajejosep oy} Je AT[Np pores oY 

{P2Ao] JOU SEM OY PUP. POAOT OY ‘STF STY YIM Jsoyd 

Zuruing sty yonns oy ‘Ays Azeys oy) ye Iedsop ur dn poyoo] oH 

‘QOUdTIS JO JSpru ou} UT ‘poddojs 
dp ‘UNY polomsue BUINION ,,jOUNSTYD,, :urese yno pores oF] 

“peor OTM 

ou] UO 0p yoryq e ATUO SBM J WOOS ynq ‘WeYsNoIq 94) JOYE 

uel op ‘poreaddesip pey sory s UeUIOM SUNOA SUL, “MOU PosOo]o sem 

MOPUIM oY “Wt dojs 0} ued sty yno Aued pfnos sy aloseq 

wiy ised sem o8eiues ou ‘does e& oxUl yeaiq 0} SasIOYy ot} 

JO] [euSIs payoodxo ue oq 0} potlioes pey YSU sy) OUT popiny 

SWeU Jey} osneddg ‘pIBALIOJ poysep IF] j YOR Joy poy 0} pey oH 
‘yeoy sTy pue sdiy sty Woy Ising SAC] SIY JO ouIeU polOBS OY] 
. /OUNSHYO,, 
‘oyey oyed & WIM Joy poyeurUN]]I UooU sy) ATUSppns 

‘MOPUIM OU} JNO peoy Joy SuruLsy 

UCUIOM B 99S P[NOD oH °*} UI seM dS Jey) JQnOp ou peYy off 
‘UWIIY JO JUOI UI 9q PNOM WeYsNolg oy) pue sdo}s sIOUI Moy VW 

‘yUNODIe 0} SISN] JO Josuy 

dU} [Jed 0} pouluajap sem of] jSpeoy .SosIoy oy) suIzIas Aq 

oSetueo ay) dojs prnom oy ‘oUTSLIYD sem WJ] “SuTTeM sem oH 
‘POAOU JOU peYy OF “WTY PIeMO} SUTWIOD [[HS SPM IBRILIEO OY, 


€6 VuaadO FHL JO WOLNVHd 4HL 


“ounsHYyO 
NOA 9ZIUSODAI DUOAUP 2] },UOp ‘azIT AU Jo ayes ay} JOF 
‘poyseul [Jam oq pu OUTWOp o1yM & JeaM ‘JUOUNUTOdde sty} 
ynoge P[IOM 9} UI DUOAUP [J[2} },U0G “BpUMOI sy} 0} Spedy 
yey} ABMIOOP dU) Jeo puL¢g “AqqoyT ureUr ay) Jo doeTdoNy ou) 
pulyog WOO! SUIMBIP OTT] OY) UT oq ‘WYSTUpIW yy *}xoU 
Jaye WSU ‘eIodG su} 3 [eq poyseUl oy) 0} OS ‘puaty AW 
“UT 
0} ples ouNsIYD ‘sunuMpuey e ‘Joded e ‘19a, & pozIUsOdaI pey 
oH ‘puey sty wos Wt poyojeus pue SUIsUTIQ se oY [eu oy) MES 
[noey ‘pousddey savy 4ST snoNsesip SuIMJOUIOS prele sem 


XNOAIT UOJSV) 6 


S6 


Se ‘pousyVMe pey sys 90U0 3e [|e USY], ‘OUTYORUT SUIZUIS Sso][NOS 
B Oy] AJOyeAIJOSUOD 94} YSsnoIy) ous pey Sys ‘ye Joy UdAd 
‘SUIUJAIOAS 0} PeY USY) Pe SYS UOTSJOAR OY) pue ‘YAP S.JoOUIey 
Joy Jaye Joy SWOdISAO pey Jey) Itedsop oy) MOUY oH ‘“3uITs 
-Snjs sem oy YOY UI ssouyep oy) jadsip 0} uy djay prnom 
OJ] JOY JO BSINOD WUIS9I OY], ‘UONOATIp yey) Ul YN oy) puy 
PINOM JY WY} PIoUTAUOD oUIYdOq OY BOUT SY) ‘I Jnoge WYSNoW 
oy DOU SU} ‘SOX ZOISNUI JO dSOY} JOU JI ‘suodeam yeYyM A 
isuodvam yey UTM 
pue ‘Joy pojonpqe prey IJo}suoU yeUAA {JOY UO posIolexe useq pry 
souSn]JUr yeu {poucddey pey yeuAA “OUNISIIYD [N}IOoep pure yeo 
-nuoodAy & jo vopr oy} Aq UMOIY] Useq peYy oy YoryM oyuT AzuaTy 
oy) WIM pareduios ‘wy 0} a[qereoq pouloos ured yeu) yng ‘ysis 
-ue ponId WIM sIy} Te ynoge palapuom of {posseIp useq sys 
pey ssXqe yeym oj] Zoys sem Jouosud ssoy, ZuImOIA ® ATTear 
MOU OS SBM JUd}XS YM OF “APWANISUDSIOAO pue DdUEpNIduIT Jo 
WIOTA B SBA OYA PITYO JUDOUUT ‘ayeUNZOJUN Ue :oSeUIT ISITY sTY 
0} ABM dAvs ‘J[OSIOY 0} ANP Joy UsVOSIOJ pey oYM sUTSLIY. B Jo 
‘pousoy A[Joug pey oy OseUT Yep OY], “WY UT oATAOI odoy oyeU 
0} YSNOUd SPM JI “JUOWIO}IOXA YSLIOADJ YIM JI pRalol Novy 
| "eI9dQ 
Op 0e[q 9y} JO YeMOpIs eB UO puUNOJ usd0q peYy I ‘pouoddey 
pey yorym ‘Tnoey 0} 3 aye) pue dn yt yord prnom Aqiossed ev 
yey) odoy oy} UI ynO UMOIY) Useq ATJUOpPTIAS pey I “[loued ul ua} 
-WIM ‘ssoIppe oy} pue , Auseys) op [Novy JUNODSIA 0) PoIdATTap 
2q OL,, SPIOM 94} 310q Sdo[sAUS CadNVISNN ‘CANIVISGNW AHL 


TTEG PeYSeCW 94} 1V 


OL 


“OUTWIOP 3}T4M B I4YSNO0g sy ‘OS USA “JOY posmMo 
pue portd Ajoyeurayye oy ‘I9q BsIND JO suTIsIIYD Ajid prnoys oy 
JOUJOUM SUIMOUY JON “SOUIAIXS 0} JUBM SJYSNoY) s [Novy Os puy 

jAJOSTUN JBUAA LOAOT O} MOU SBM OM 
uewl Zunod poyreoyslopus} e Jo UNy SuryeuUl ul O3 eIodKO os} Jo [113 
B pjnoo Jey MOP “]Jeq poyseul yey) ye Avyd 0} wy SuuOUUINS se 
OUT)SIIY) sues JeYM palopuoM sy ‘pooudtIodxouy “yesy snoyeol 
SIY IOAO ‘JSoyd SIY JO YSaJ OY) OJUI spleuasuIy sIy 3np jnoeYy 
, jOUsO[NOg op Slog oY) UI Sop JoJ yno Joy SuryL} 
SPM OY MOU puy ‘“Ioyoed} snonpisse ue sem OFT jSyUOU saIy) 
JO} SUOSSO] SUTISLIYD USAIS pey dIsNJY JO josuy 24] ‘stWUOU 
S014) Joy SuTUIAd AIOAD UopIeS Id 0} YyOrq ouOs pey sys JI 
$901) Jo dumnyjs sy) puryoq Jey posoaoosip savy ATTeNjUdAd pynom 
YS ‘aouaLIedxe poyeodas ysurese dn poojs savy jou plnom uon 
-CUISPUII S SsooulId SUIADIIS dy} JO JUSWUSIJ Jeu) ING °° * SUTUDAO 
g[suis ve ‘yYsnoYy) [noeY ‘SuIUDAO UY ° °° ZUTIUDAD JY) ‘SOA 
‘ysed T1ay) Wo SUOS Je) JOY SUIS 0} SUTIUDAD 
yey} USAPOY WOIJ UMOP SWIOD peYy puegsny Joy yey) PooUTAUOD 
sAemyje sem sys UO Udy) WoO pue ‘poaes sem pue jdom oys 
‘sofo Joy ut dn payjam sieayz, “Ajdaep [nos Jay ims 0} pourquios 
SOIOA JUSOTJIUSeUI Ss Jey pue ‘spioM oy} ‘ApopoU sy], “oseLIeU 
Tray) Jo sAep AjsJeo oy} UI SUIS pueqsny Joy pxeoy pey sys jeu) 
SUOS SUIYONO) pue sAIssoidxo 390A o[duIs Be Sues pue ‘poyuosuOD 
oH ‘surd] sem Ys YoIyM Ul soon Jo dummy oy} JeoU ‘Ud_aS 9q JOS 
“UNITY SUIN}O[ NOUIM “SUIS 0} WIY poyse sjuBpudye s.ssoouLd ou) 
Jo 9UQC ‘Ajneog S}I JOJ poUMOUAI SBMA JI BSNKddq USpses yey} 998 0} 
pojuem oy sojden ysnomp) Sutssed sem ‘1aZUIs UeUIAD \sSo}ROI3 
oy} ‘JJey UOUAA “SPM SYS SIOYM OZI[eAaI 0} WIS0s jOU pIp ays 
jnq ‘Udpses Joy OJUI poled sem oys SuTUOAD AIOAW ‘JIT Joy Jo 
UOTIeTIYUUL dy} preMo} SuIpeoy Alfenpess seM UOsedl Joy JO Sul 
-uayeom oy} pue ‘Aep AI9A9 PoUdsIOM PIVIOUI [e}JUSW pue TeotsXyd 
Joy ‘doom Jou yeods JoujIou prnos sys yOu B Jo *Auyede oyu 
pouin} pey medsop 1oy pue puegsny Joy jsoy ysnf pey oys uoyM 
MUOW]Og SSdoUuLIg 0} pousddey pey yeyM poJoquIOUIAI oF] ‘payuop 
-9001dun JOU SBM UONeNpS & YONs Jey) J[OSUIY plo} nowy puy 
(poseoyd oy spunos JoA9}e4M MBIP P[Nod sy YOTYM wos yUOWINsUT 
SSo[djay & OJUT JOY DyVUI 0} PI SuIsN sem ‘JOUIJ Jay 0} Jeap useq 
pey yey} pussy ou) jnoge SulmouyY ‘ouAA {)LNIds snoIpuom yey) 
SBM OY SADI[OQ Joy ZUTyeU SEM OUAA * * * DISH Jo jasuy oy], 
‘poyduinty pue jsnv.7 Ul oyIonsIeyy sues yg joUIOD pey oIsn|W 
JO [OsUY SU], ‘UONUSAIOJUI OUTAIP & Jo yaQIJo oy? Aq Ysnoy} 


XNOdI‘] U0jSV*) 96 


"“SUNISLIYD Sem I pozlvar off ‘sdyJosuly sty pozoonbs ATyoInb 
pue Aq possed ourwop yorlq & UT SUOSWIOS “ZUO] eM JOU pIp 
oH ‘poywem pue Joop ay) ysurese pouesl of “dud poyejosr aow 
OUIOS UT ULY} B[QvooTOU ssoz 9q prnom Ady} ‘syseul Joy} SuLeoM 
‘asnedeq WOOL po}soSUOS Jey) UI ZUNSOU! SNOLIo}sAUI Oy) oAeY 
0} Poploep sAPY JSNUI SUTSUYD Jey) JYSNoY} [NOeY ‘snoAof pue 
powsids-ysiy sem JNU} oy) sJOF] ‘ousedueYO Jo sse[s e Suraey 
Wolf SUIUINIAI SSO) JOU EpUNjOI sy) ye Joddns savy 07 AEM IIOy) 
UO 9SOY} SJOYM SPROISSOIO SY) SEM 3 asnedeq a[doad WIM poyoed 
sem ooeds ][euls s}j “payeorpur pey Joyo] S,oUNSIYD yey} Wool 
oy) OJUT JUOM ATTeUTZ OY ‘JUOUIOU B JO} WY pamnjdes yey) aouep 
punol e wo Suidesso pue Aqqol, Uleul oy) SUISSOID Joy 

"“oNoualy apy Be Apearye sem Ajores osoym safdnoo 
[eIoaos Jo Ajlrel[IWey Yyseiq oy} pojjnqor pue ‘soyof ou 0} 
popuodsas ‘UOTJeSIOAUOD UI WIY a3e3US 0} SIoyeUIALIOU poyseul 
Aue Moje JOU pip oH ‘ssuN}es snonjduins jsow s.pyjom ay} Jo 
Quo UT ‘sdo}s ofqrew oY} UMOP pue dn SUTAOU soUNysOD por0joo 
-Ty[NU oy} sw punore s[oe}deds oy} Je YOO] 0} ZuIsned ynoyjIM 
‘JUSIUPIU 0} SOINUTUT SATJ 7B ISKdITE)S JVOIS OU} POqUIT[D [NOeY 
‘poyoeoldde ystupru se meojdn 
AWystu ev SuLyeW ueSeq OYM sjUOpN]s We pue sfepoul Jo onuTjal 
B WIM Buoe ‘aloy} posoyjes pey sjsnse Aueyl ‘[[eq poyseur 
Ayeulpio ue ue} UPTWOYO SOU pue ‘JoIsTOU ‘I9dAe3 9q 0} JUBOLT 
aojoroy} sea i “AepsoupoA, Ysy Jo smoy Ayres oy} UT UopIes 
oyqnd a[[HInod sy) IS] WY) sIoyeuUTATIOUI JO opeofeavo [euon 
-Ipey oY) pue SID[DADI pawnjysoo ATTeonseULy poziyeyouU peYy 
[Iouad asoyM ‘TUIBARD JO JOJE[NUIS Ue ‘soUlT] sUOZAQ UI SONTANSOJ 
jo SduIMeIp pip OYA ySTVe snowy ve Jo Aepyyiq oy JOU0Y 0} 
IpPHoaosysS soJoq 3snf USAIS UONeIQoI99 yeIdods & SBAK [Jeq SIU], 
“auo Aq polsaoo Apeorye 
SEM }I [YSU Sso[UOISsoldxa ue OUI 90RJ STY WIN} Jo ‘puajaid 
0} pool ou sAvY P[NomM oF “Weoy sTy JO ssoupes oy} pue [Nos sIy 
JO SSOTSIP 9Y} YIM SUOTe ‘sWOY Je oI9M OY JI Se WOU) UT puNnore 
yeh pinos off :oseyuRApe JOuJOUL peYy YseW puke oUIN}sod sTy puy 
"pozusooe1 9q 10U ATUTeVIDD pfnom sf :[NoeyY pojosuos yYsnoy} 
suQ ‘Al[NyUlepsip s[MWWs sIsyjO oyeW prnom jy ‘eIadO su) 3 [TeqG 
@ O} O83 0} J[OSUIIY ISINSSIp JOU PIP ppJOomM sy) Jo uewW Y ‘operonb 
-SPUL SIJURWIOI B JOJ YSNOY) se ‘Jey SAI] NO poyoop [je surpos 
Aq sno[noIpty JposurTy opeul pey oy yeu) pospnf oy ‘oumnjsoo oy1yM 
SIY UL UMO[D B SY¥I] SUI[Say pue VOR] YOU) ‘SUOT WIM powuwTy 
Yyseul 8 Sureop, ‘owed JUoUNUTOdde sIy Jo own ou) ATUL 


L6 VuaddO FHL JO WOLNVHd dHL 


0} polwwees 00} OYS JNg “SUTISUYD SsuNjes1oy “wy pyeMo} YSN 0} 
jnoqe sem oH [WI pozusooal pey off , ,jSOUIg Je peoy-s peop 
OU], ‘powreoxe Ajreou op “WIYy preMo} pourn) isnf pey oym 

‘lapeJonbsewl swosonids oy} Jeou cued [NORY USyM Se JUL 
“sIayOo[UO ay} JO Zureef ay} Aq ponsind 
‘ueulpeul e oy] Aeme uel oy ‘WIY poseofor AT[eUly IVE poy 
ou) Us AA “JOW} pue ured Ul NO polo URW 9u) ‘OS WIY 39] JOAOU 
PINOM 3 7eY}) SuTpoo oy)? WIM ‘Ipeop Jo dus ssapuajar ‘Auog sy} 
U] ‘ISUIM Sue Apreyjooy oy) pozios AT[eINIG puke SAdOIS JO]IVOS & 

JO NO OWRD puURY [e}O[OYS VY “WIY YON} 0} poly suooWOs puy 
_ Aq Sutssed yyeoq poy oy) We | ‘ow YONO} JOU OG,, :pnoye 
pojeodal pue peal SUOAIOAS Jey) SPIOM 310M ‘SI9}9] PlOS Ul porop 
-IOIQUIA ‘HBOS yey} UO pUR ‘atl} JO JOOYS B SY] JOOTJ OY) SsoIOR 
peoids yey) Yyeo]d JOA[OA Pol OSUOWUT Ue WIY pUuTYysq posseIp 

‘yey poumnyd oy) pue peoy-s yyeop ou) YIM “JopIeOs Ul URW oY], 
iI JO} pasod savy Jsnul Jasuy Jodesy 
WD cu], ‘poyured pue ‘opeu ‘pousdisop us0q pey peoy-s,qjeop 
yusoyruseur ev yons ‘oynjtg Aq poyuonboly o1pms yeyM UT ‘193 
-seur yeyMm Aq UITY poyse ‘WIY poye[MeIsu0o pue powle[ooe wIY 
punose sjuspnys ye dU, {SPA HI peoy-s YVop & JO UOTEPUIT JOAIIO 
B yeyM ‘YY “peosy-s,Wjeop & UO Jey pouInyd 3Iq & YIM “Joes UI 
Ppassorp sem OH{ ‘UOMRSUSS B SUTROID aIOM ooURIeodde sIqeoeUl 
‘OLIRZIQ pue SUIN}SOD SsOyM UvUI B pUNOIe SUIPMOIO dnols B sem 
a1ay} AI[DAOI JO PUTY ISOP|IM dU) OUT SoajosuoU}) SUIMOII) o[dood 
jo sdnoid oy) [fe Suowe yey) ‘ssuoI) Joyo oy) SuoWe SuOIp 
JoBIE] & SPM JOU} JY) SuIONoU day jou plnoo sy ‘oepins sy 

puryoqg oul sty} ‘uTese Aqqgo] UTeW dy} SUISSOID sem [NOVY SY 
‘SUIMOTIOJ []HS seM OUTWOp SITY JU) 

JE 90S 0} OUT} 0} SUIT WOI pUNOIe poUIN OUTWOP Yor|q oy] 
‘Qouasqe Je[NSuIs Joy Jo UoTeULTdxo Tenjeu APooyiod v UWTY SAIS 0} 
ynoge ATomMs sem SYS PUY “SAO UI SEA OFT ‘SSOUdSeq JO ‘SSOUDAIS 
-Jo} ‘soues[Npul Jo yunoure Aue MOYs 0} Apeor sem aH ‘Ieadde 
JUST yONpUOS Joy s[qeuoljdxoul pue ppo IaAsMoOY ‘SuOIM SuTyIOU 
QUOp pey dYS Jey} ONS USAD SBM OH “JOY JO payey Aue 25 Josuoy 
ou oF] “ABM oSueIS & YONS UT UIeSe Joy pUNO} SuTAvY Jaye ‘I9y 

SUISO] JO preyje SPM OH “DOUTTIS WI Joy SUIMOT[OJ UO JUOM OF] 
‘urese oureu Joy Aes 0} JOU WY [][9) 0} AUaprAs 

‘sdij Joy 0} JosuIy Joy jnd pue punosw pouim Apdniqe sys 
“sdiy 

SIU SUIAOUW JNOYIM JSOW]e ‘poyse oy , .{OUNSLIY.) ‘NOA yey} ST,, 

"Joy PoMo]jo} OH 


XNOLF] UOJSBS) 96 


<<{NOA SAO] OYM PUB DAC, NOA WOYM MOUY 
ILI Ppue ‘uoNdsdap JO S{I9A OU YIM ‘d0BJ-0)-9983 JONIO Yoed je 
YOO] [],aM SW sty) pue ‘JjosAul poyseuun oA,J se ‘WY yseuUN 
ILI Ng joIsnyA Jo jasuy MOA ‘puswy moX jyeeq poy ou} ‘prek 
“SARIS SOLI9g 9Y} Ul pds [IAS oI ‘osINSsIp ATWBOp Snoopry yey) 

puryoq sopry oy ueur oy) S,j],, “ATUZUe pres oY ..{11 SI OUM,, 
“SnoOLIny suredeq A[ayeIpourU pue ‘pip ay Wsnoy) 
JO ‘poojsiopun sp] “YISuaNs poyoodxoun YM yorq WIY poaoys 

SYS INQ ‘SOUL)SISOI JOY SUIODIOAO 0} UIYZe poly A[Uappns [nory 
..ghoX wo ABME 393 1,U0M OUM 

FW ST OYUAA,, “SOIOA poSueyo e UI Poyse OUS ..¢.d, SI OUAA,, 
‘Opise Joy ysnd 0} porn 

Off ‘JOOP OY} PIsO][d sUNSHYD ‘preMmsoj poysns ay se isnf ing 
{OW Woy 

ABME 103 },UOM BY SUIT) SIU], ‘paliejoxe ay . jSI oy aay], 
"SOLJ9g Je UdOS 
ISIEF PUY SY LY) PLoy-S WIVop oY) MES ay UIEZE D0UH ‘sHe}s oy) 
UMOP SUIVD Yad poy tH Jo JUOUHTES joOPIEOS oY) “Apfeonsofeur 
‘AEMO[S PUY “OAOGE JOOTZ 94} 0} Pof JY) osvorTe}s oy) Jo days 
do} sy} uo Ieedde ‘1oyjoue Aq pamoyjoj ‘300} por v uses ysnf pey 

oy ssnedseq Joy poddojs fnoey jnq JOOP oy} eSO]D 0} pal sys 
«| UMOp 
yoeg SUIWIOD s.dH,, ‘NO pala ays A[Uappns ,,"pullg oy) Jo 
XxOg 9y) 0} dn ouoS savy JSAUI OF7,, ‘90IOA MOT & UI pres pue 
‘Tey sy) oJUT poyxooy ‘rele Joop oy poysnd sy UsY], ‘apts Jay)I0 
ot uO sovjd Zurye) sem yeyM 07 ATOAHUSHE Ud}ST] pue [TEM ou) 
ysulese ued] Joy 90S 0} pastidims sem oy ‘JJO H aye) 0} Joy yse 
0} jnoqe sem oy se ysnf puy ‘UO sIoy }doy sUS “ysewW sIy JO 
yoo) oH ‘Wry 90s sucAuR Qo] JOU pu xO0Q 9Yy) JO Wal ou} Je 
Aeys 0} wry plo) Apomb oys se ao10A Joy poztuZooe1 sy USoyM 
poullyuos sem AIVUSpT Joy Jo AJUTEIIOO SIE] ‘Woy puFYyeq Joop 
OY} POsO[d SYS “I OJUT JOY MOT[OJ 0} [NORY 0} pomnjsos pue xog 
8 JO JOOP 94} poucdo oY ‘poyasop A[Jeou aJOM s]feY pur sire}s 

oY) sISYM SUIPING ou) Jo wed eB 0} ‘sIOO}J OM) dn yuoM Ady], 
‘ponsind Suteq o10M Ady} JI se ‘o1OUI [[NS S.jnoey pue soed 
Joy pousyomnb sys asnedeq ‘Ioy poucYyZuUy yey) Zunpoulos ses 

0} POUIIOS SYS SIM} PUL ‘SJUSWIOU MOJ AIOAD YORG payoo] ous 
“Suissed sem WRIG poy OW) YOIYM YSnoIw pMoOIO [eoeruowop 
yey) Woy Aeme ‘Aqqoy oq) Jo no uTY pay[nd pue we sy) Aq UY 
yoo) sys ‘uonEWse osueNsS JO PUTY SWIOS YM pozios useq OALY 


66 VuadO FHL 4O WOLNVHd AHL 


_, [noey ‘I9AdI0J BAq-Ppooy,, “sd10A SuTIOIRJ 
8 ul ‘AJOARIS pres oUNSLIYD ,,‘oXq-poos pure ‘puoLy Aur ‘oAry,, 
« jOUeYS JO SIP [L.I,, 
.1d0}G jTNOLY,, 
< 1210dQ 
3} WOT [IZ UOWUIOD B 0} SUTeU AU SAIS 0} :OJI] UT [eos oUO 
Ayo pey | Jey) YU} | USYAA {peu OW UOALIP p,noX jou ‘ON,, 
‘peoy sity yoous oH 
< [IM J] puke ‘spiom Aqgn 
QSOY) [[e JO} NOK SATZIOJ 0} OU Yse [[,NOA ‘nowy ‘Aep sulOS,, 
*XOg oY} SUTAROT Woy ITY daoy 0} :suTU) 
9u0 Jo ATUO SuTyUIY) ‘Joy WNSUT WIY 39] pey sYg ‘dom oy puy 
_ jnod 
asidsop | jmeaq poy ou) UNM [eq eIodO ue.o} OS NOA Udy 
‘AJLIDOUIS INOA UI SOADTPOQ [INS YS :Weoy JWOOOUUT s_SsoNORJ 
-9u0q INOA Jo aBeyURApe USE) AT[NJoueYs U9AD 9A NOX jIUOATIAS 
POATOap 9A,NOX jou DATZ.9p 0} sem UOTJUS}UT ATUO MOA UOyM 
‘UBWIOM a[qeJoUCY Ue aJaM NOA YsNOy) | puy ‘UeUT a[quIoUCY 
UB U_] asnevseq ‘adoy a[quiouoy URsUl | {20UdTIS INCA UdA9 ‘soko 
mo ut Aof oy) ‘aprymme nok Aq adoy Joy uosvar ou OATS NOA pIp 
AYUM ‘sOllog Ul SUNOUI ISIJ Ino SuLMG “u90q 9A] SB Po[NoIpIs 
pue -popnyep oq JJesuTY Jo] P[nom ou oy, UeW SunoA Addeyun 
‘100d & AJUQ joUl poaoy JOAOU 9A,NOA ‘OU SAOT },UOp nox 
[SULA] O1,NOA,, ‘Ppayey YSIpP]Iyo Jo ouo}-e UT Joy 0} pres oy puy | 
|SULAT SBA DYS ZOAO| JOY], ‘odvose 0} 
QUIT} YILIC] Poy SY} VAIS 0} ‘spuodes Mo}J B JOJ WTY Av[Ip 0} SEM 
pajyuem oys [TV jAsuoodAy yeyAA ,,‘SAOT Woy) JO oueU 9Y} UT,, 
ayods sys jWIY paao] cys pres sys Mou puy jABMe UNI pey sys 
‘ON {0789 Joy popseu }sSOUI oY UOYM SUIT} OY) Je WITY YIM pode}s 
}SBQ] Je SYS peH ‘preAoaesS sovoeg oy} Ul JYSIU yey) Joye poo pue 
JOLIO} WOIJ peop Jey ‘II WY uses pey SYS “oWIOdS 10U pIp Jey) 
adoy JO piom pury e& JoJ BuIsseq ‘Joy aOJoq sieo) ul ‘Addeyun 
WIy uses pey sys jji pres savy pynoo sys uoyM sown AueU 
useq pey 10} JOA “UWITY POAC] US pres sys pey sIOJOq JOADN 
LAA] Id} JO owWeU oy) UT {ples sys pey yeu “poddojs oF 
. jo20y} NO O8 },UJsNU NOA ‘[NoeY ‘dA0] MO JO oWeU SU? UT,, 
| ‘IOOP dy) UO YsoTJ OITYM 
JO JoLyeq & WCF 0} SUITE JOY pastel oys ‘oINjsos SIdeT} & UT 
¥ "yseul Joy puryoq 
Ajaatqureyd poueoul sunsuy opty JoyySne] pew out ysInq oH 


XNOAIT U0jsvyy OOT 


“smopeys pes A[SUISsaQsip. 
Aq posuts atom pue syydap sfqewlouwjesun pur ‘snozajs<u ‘yep 
savy 0} poreadde mou ‘ayo7y api] Joy soko se pansas yey) soye] 
oy} SB Jwajo se sou0 ‘sakd anfq [nJnNeeq Joy pue ‘3 pamoxmy 
A[SSOPOIOU PEY MOLIOG jMOU SEAL HT POIUSULIO) MOP “IO1TJUOS 
NOYWM VoUSTIOSUOD B PUB ddeIT [nJooved SuNsa]Jor ‘Surweyo pue 
epued Os UMOUY pey oy 998} yey) JOAO peauds pey JoTed ATO 
“SULIOJOD YSolj S}I SO] peYy UOTxa{duIO. Joy ‘uLeye pue asiidims 
JO UoRNeUTeTSX® Ue YOeq Pfoy OU PfNod sy ‘aDey Joy Suts—eg 
‘Ajdumts pres ays ,,‘inoey ‘Aposen e s,jq,, 
“yseul Jay JJO Yoo) sunsiyD 
<<Goole} 
sty} Jo asodind oy} s.JeyAA [Sem | se ‘polstur useq savy pfnom 
suokuy jeseofd ‘oust ‘Jpasinod ureldxq j juids Surpin3, 
mo Suryoaur pue ‘nod Joy Suryrem [MS st snus, eure; 
JoA puy “BUlOp o1,nok JeYM MOUY NOX ‘oUNSUYD ‘a[qQisuas AIOA 
O1,NOX jst YNQ oy} yeyM MouUy nod MoU Ing «°° Mes JosAU 
J ‘soled uy “Aj[Nperd mo jo aseyuRApe yoo) ‘nok paarasep 
quOsUOS aqheW] {SNUZTVA BURY] 0} PJO} NOA dIsNy Jo [asuy oy) 
ynoge AIO}s Jey? SEM JY AA {SYIOM OM} JSeT Oy) ZulOp useq NOA 
oaRy JY ZOUOY OS nod },uop AYA, ‘OUTWOP eB BuLROM ‘TTeG 
B 0} 08 NOA ‘aseLUed & UT SPI NOX ‘pasonoyun ‘say ar.noZ,, 
‘Pod oY ,.{SUBOU SI) [fe JY UI [Jo] Nod 3,uOM jNg,, 
"INOS STY 9[QNoN 0} uesaq Ajjanio sty JO} asIOUIS! pue 
“poyeys oy yey) Iedsap yons YIM , jJOAO [Je S.3],, ey) pres aus 
«JJOAO [TB SII “[Nowy 
“OU UT YWeJ INOA ISO] 9A,NOA ‘OWL SASTIAG 3,UPfnom nox ‘alour 
surAue noX [][9} 3,Wed | nq ‘jey) NOA {>} 0} aloy sured ],, 
<<G UOAROY 
yey JO—Apey] snouajsAu ‘Suravs] nod ose [jay yyM JO. guIMaI 
0} BuIos a1.noA sMmopeys JeyM OjJUT MOUY yseol ye | AeP,, 
,, ulese 
OUI 99S JOAOU [[,NOX ‘[noey ‘as[a asJoyMAue JO oIOY) JON,, 
«< SIYSTU VS9q} JO SUO SIOG 94) UI Jot} Yeo 9e8 
[1.2” Ing jsuonE[NeIUO_ {amMstol Jo Ape, B sWI0DEq NOK 39] 0} 
SUIS S,dY OF,, “WsedIes JoTAvoy USAS YIM pres ay ,{ATTeOY,, 
<, UIVse SUIS IJOAOU [I.J,, 
<.gNOA 100M ‘ust 
pue mou nod pnejdde pue swos our 39] [[,nOX {1aAcI0y AU, 
‘WUSBOIBS JO 900Id aroUl 
oUO paNjUsA pue “jJo05 sy UO Apesysun ‘Jay preMmo) poddays of] 


TOT VdaddO FHL JO WOLNVHd dHL 


La|qesOsTU OS SEM [NORY UOYyM 
YLrq Joy Auos Surpooy ays sem AyM pue ‘sysis Joy YIM Op 0} ALY 
YL Jeu) PIp UMA ..i{IA J00g,, ‘peoy Joy Suryeys ‘poyeadar oys 
Ng ,.j[NoeY Jo00g,, ‘ysis e WM Aes 0} JOY Joy [eIMeU APooyiod 
wo0q SARY pynom I ‘Woy? Usomjoq pousddey ysnf pey yey 
Iayy ‘nowy ‘oy sem yt ‘Ayd poarosop ouoAue JI yey) POOUTAUODS 
SBM OY ‘][@ JO ISIE “pooyssopunsiw savy Jsnu oy Iysnom oH 
| pq Joog,, ‘INULINUI Joy prvoy 
ay asneseq ‘ON {Nowy ynoqe SuryUIy) sys seAA {PUT Joy uO 
SUM JEUAA ‘Spuey Joy udeMjJEq II YOO) pue ‘pesy [NyHNesq Joy 
pomog ‘poysis ‘ajqe} oy) 3B UMOP yes SYS “a[qQe} Sy} OJUO 7 
posso} pue ‘yseul Joy Jyo yoo) Ayeom ‘ur owed SUTISIIYD 
‘+ + "pueisrapun 0} UIsaq UOOS pjnom ay sdeysed yey) pue Aro)sAur 
ay} Jo wed ssoujim 0} jNOGe seM oY JeY) WIY Plo} SUTOUIOS 
;MOUY 0} PayweM off [90S 0} poweM oH “Weolg sy ploy oH 
jOUNSLIYD sem I] ‘Joop ou usdo poysnd puey 
Y ‘ureumo ev Aq A[UO UWIOOI BUIssorp oY) Woay poyeredas sem YOTYA 
‘TTopnog oy) Ul apry 0} ou pey Ajoreq OH “Tey oy) UT sdoysj}ooy 
pieoy oy usw) ysnf ing ‘ouNsTYyD 0} SuNLEM Jo TYZNoY) oH “YSOp 
QTY B UO ATOUOTIE}s OUIOS SEM BIO, “MO] UMOP pou) ‘suTUING 
sem JYUSIses y “Ajdwo sem WOO! SUISSOIP SY], ,,“dd10A SUR 
dU},, OJ aIoyMAIOAD SUTYOOT SEM OY USM oUOP peYy oY sv UI 
JUSM OFT ‘JOMsUB OU SEM dIOY], “JOOP oy] UO payoouY 9H “JoFpNs 
0} UNZeq pey sy soy sdeR{d yey} 0} WIY YOO) sdojs}oo} STH 
"Wool 
ZUISSOIP S,OUNSLIYD 0} pay Jey) [ey ssesyoRq oy) UMOP popeoYy 
oy SUTUIOW Oy) UT OM) JY “OIOYMOU WIY punoJ oY Inq “xeo[d 
jeAor sty Surrey ‘passed ysnf pey yeoq poy oy} Jey) aIOyMAIOA 
plo} sem aH ,,"JeO[O por SIq e& pue pkdy-s,qeop & YA Ue 
posingsip B S.dH,, ‘poJomsue oy ‘sear VOC] Poy SY} OYM poyse 
Koy) usu, “Aq 03 yyeaq poy oy) uses pey Ay} Jt ajdood poyse 
oy WOO Tjeq oy} pessolo sy SY “poyoe yeoy sIy pue poqqomy) 
sojduia} sip ‘Surop sem oy yeyM Apoexd SuIMoUy jOU “PMoOIO 
OU) OJUT ‘sITeJSUMOP JUOM oY Udy, “ABMe ye Joy poyojem oH] 
-dajs JoyjOUe dye} 0} Ep JOU PIP sy Jey) AyLIOUINE UsTO 
-I2AOS YONS YIM IMsSOd [JOMoIeJ Joy poyeodos pue punose pouin) 
ays nq ‘AemAue Joy Joye SUIOD 0} Pol dH “JOY MOT[OJ 0} WY 
SpeqiO} Jey) oINysoB & WPI ‘YJo] pue UTese yseUL Joy UO ynd sys 
7’ kep owos ogkeyy ‘oqdey,, 
7 7 ‘OUL SATZIOJ 0} posturoid noZ,, 
‘Joy 0} SUITE sTy yno ZurIpjoy ‘pouvow oy ,,jsurpep Aw ‘YO,, 


XNOLI] U0jSUS) ZOL 


-IOJsue] OY} Poojsiopun sy puy jJoyoes) umouyuN ‘snoLajs<ul 
Joy jo asouaNnyJUI oy) Jopun [[NMs useq savy JsnUT sYys—Ajneaq 
umouyun Ajsnoracid e& puke uoneyexe ueumysodns poXeydsip 
yey) SUIZUIS WIM puNogi[eds Woy) proy pue ZurusAd suo soUNIpNeE 
ue aJojoq Jvadde 0} a[ge us0q peYy SUNSLIYD MOY pue}sIopun 
0} SUIUUIS9G ‘JUOUIOJIOXO YIM SOIOA FYB 0} poUd|sl] [noeY 
"‘pomsysuen oq 
PIhom ‘oUuTAIp oy} poyono) SuIAey ‘ye HOY} Puy ‘30vI3 Jeorsnul 
Ul SUDFULIp olom Aouy JU) UTeYOD ‘yup APROAep puE Ayoyes 
PJRoo [ARpy oy) Yor ye Auowwey jo Zuudstfam oid ‘ours v& 
SUM JJ ‘OISN powdiojiod puke ‘poao] ‘4793 OYA oUOAUE UI s}UaN0R 
Ajfo] aFdsul 0) YBnous wseq savy sul opdurexo soy s}UOONN 
Ajio}seu ‘ayeuTUINSHOD peYy I] ‘UeYydwINLN AfqustsoiH os ‘Aaeorap 
Ul SUONS OS ‘IVSUARS WI oLdITop os ‘snopisUT ATSNOLIO}DIA OS 
“‘yooms A]jeotolsy pue Ade os SumpjAue presy JoAoU pey [noey 
‘uorjelidsur Jo o8ims aSuIs B Ul ‘900 Je souianXe Ye poyun 
yey} OIOA B SEA I “UleSe SUISUIS URSOq DOIOA SSOTIPOg SUL 
“Wat 
IP] 03 SuIos OU st Woy poyorye Jey} ssouT[I oy) yey) doy 0o} 
uIsaq Ay) Udy SARY SJHIDSOFeAUOD JY} O[TWIS Jo pury ay} ‘a TUES 
Addey e pouuoy sdiy ssajpoojq Joy “dn yy] sovy s,ouNsEYD 
‘sUItOU WIY pemoys Adu} :soA9 sIy SASTTOG 
OU p[nod [noey ‘UTe}IND oy) puTYysq Wo SuTo}eM ATsnonNe, 
., puaLy AUT ‘a}e] Ss.OuM 
suo oY} O1.nOX “Apeol W],, ‘pres sys ..‘yuq ‘ue | aloqy,, 
‘JOY FBOU SUOOUIOS 0} SUTyRods 
OIOM YS JI SB IDIOA oY} 0} ayOds pue dn poojs yg ‘ouNsITYyD 
JO UOJ UI ‘Wood AY] UI SEM YI MOU ‘TTeM 9U} YSNoIy) JUaM ATTeUTT 
pure Josofo Suruos ydoy yy ‘UeWIOM & 0} SUOTAq OU pfnoo WT yey) 
pospnf oy pue Ayyenb ournoseul e& pey ssouyjos si Ing ‘s0I0A Sur 
-yeandeo pue ‘yyos ‘[njyneog AISA v ‘d9I0A B poYysInsuNsip [nowy 
‘Q[QISTT[SIUT SOM SpIOM [HUN ‘JoreayD ouTed9q BUISUIS dU], 
j[SUISUIS OIOM STTeM OU} JT 
SB SEM JI ‘SAX ‘S][BM SY} WO, SWIOD 0} powsss SuISuIs payin 
GwuAyI Aemeley yey) ‘Woy SuMM0D punos osuens yey) sem 
SOYA °00} pousjsi[ [NOVY “SUIUS}SIT 9q 0} PoUiaas YS “Ss0IpoOq 
Jay ut Joded Jo sjaoys oy) pry pue peoy Joy postei sys ATUappns 
‘sased Inoj ‘aery) ‘om) Sul] ‘SuNLIM UO JUAM oYg “WWZnoy) oY 
<<iPBOY [OOO B JY AA,, “Woy? poyesedos pey yey) DUDS SHeUTEIp os) 
WO SUI[qUIAN [[NS sea OYM ‘fnoeY UO UOIssaidul o[qeooiZesIp 
B opeul i yey) A[ayeloqijap pue ATwyed os ‘ZunM uesoq sys 


€Or VaddO AHL dO WOLNVHd SHL 


"W001 
94} Ul papuNoser [JMS So10A ayeuorssed ‘Aemerey & o[FYMULOUT 
puy joU0 ON “S]TeM ot} UPIM paplfoo off “JOLT 9} 0} UBT Off 
‘pazeoddesip pey sunsuys ng 
“JOT SY) Ul JJASWIY MES OY PUL UTESe [[NS sUIeDDq SUTAIOAS 
Ajjeuty ‘way Jo Aue yono} jou prnoo oy yey) Apyornb os wry wos 
AeMe poaoul pue ‘uITY ye poYysne] ‘WY punor popTyM A[quITU 
AoyL, ‘sounsiys Ayuom) ‘WYSIa ‘InoJ yng SOM] JOU MES DH “BOI 
sty ssoioe dams pum Aor ue opm premyoeq uMoy) ATUoppns 
sem oY ‘WIY poios3e}s yey) spoRINU Sul[zzep Jo pury e Aq ‘Ing 
“0g 
WY} SZIVS 0} NO payoel [Novy puL ‘IOyIO Yeo OJUT pasIoW pue 
peyono) Ajjeuyj—oseurr oy} pue Apoqg o}—souNsuYyD OM} SU], 
“JOYIO YORI PIeMO} SUTWIOD PonUTUOS ISU Joy pue sUTSLIYD 


jdaaasof aut 03 nok paummys soy Kuysaq 


‘ray Aq payesouod pure Joy puryog Apoonp 
SEM 9Y asnedeq ‘SI JOU yNq ISVUTT UMO JOY MES OYS “JOLIIW 
ve £q posoaod AyoInuo sem YoTyM ‘WOO! oy) JO Yorq oY} ye [TEM 
oY} PIeMO} ZUIAOU! SEM SYS “OUNSIYD premo} suTyyeM pue UY 
USppry pey yep uleyNd ou} opise Surysnd ut papesoons ay “jsoul 
Woy} popsosu oy uaym ysnf ‘ApyeuoNel [je ysowye pue ‘AdIJoUS 
pue |[IM [ye Jo wiy saudoap 0} pouloes yey) [Jods oy) Isulese 
ZUl[Z3NHS “Weoy oy) UI poqqeys useq pey oY JI se yay [NoeY 


jdanatof au oj nok paumwyo spy Kulsaq 


“Sues 
Q010A OY} YOIYM YIM wUoIssed oy) oQLIOSep p[nod sUIyJON 
‘snavzvT fo uonsasinsay ayy 3urkeyd 
UI[OIA SIQISIAUI 9Y} pIeMO} PIeACAVIS SOLI9g 3} UI aUOp pey 
OYS SB ‘OI0A 9Y} PIeMO} sue Joy yno Ind suUNsLIYD Mes [noRY 
‘ayayny ja OgWOY WO ZUOS IYSTU-SUIPpoM OY) SUISUTS SBA 
yy ‘uuAY uesed & BuIAFIO[S sem DOIOA STToSue yey} JO,J ‘UoIssed 
JO s8uIM oy} UO AYS 9) OJUT JJO Woy) poles puke Woy) poi] 
yey) 9dJOJ saNeeID B Aq Ajnvaq OUT poSueys AT[eoIpel s1OUI oy} 
[[B pourses Au) ‘re8[na ysourye ‘opiovy sem Aporour oy) pue aoeyd 
-UOWWOS 319M SpIOM dy} asnedeg “pNU WoI swIss SuLyeU seM 
y :AreuIploeynxs ZurmjAue ZuiZuts jou sem W osnedoq Ajostoord 
‘Q010A AJBUIPIORXS Y} 0} PoUd}sl] oY se Joyeq UsAo UONeW 


XNOJI] U0JSVS) FOL 


GAA” YY} ST OUAM,, 
:pnoye jt possoidxo 
OH ‘yes uo SIAC] [Je 0} UOWUIOD sem Inq ‘AreuIseUT [le 
ye JOU SBM JeY) MOTOS & SuTUOUE] sie} ‘USIp[yO snoyeol Aq poys 
QsOU} Syl] ‘sIeo) AAvoy ‘peor ‘oovy SunoA sty uMOp Apuepunqe 
SUIMOTZ DIOM SIVd} ‘II pastel oY UOUAA “Spuey SITY Usamjoq peoy 
STY YOO) oY ‘JOY SAI] “QOJOq UIT} LIOYS B Jes pey SUTSLIYD soy 
UMOP Jes oY ‘ABLIESIP UL S}YSNOU} STY ‘PoWPOYMIOAO ‘poysneyX” 
{WOYM OF (OW OY, ,,j4aaasof 
aul 01 NOK paurpys soy Kuyjsaq,, ‘Suneodos jdoy sje oy) puy 
jJOAO [Je SEA II WI plo} pey sys ‘sepy {Yoeq SUIOD SYS p[nOM 
{oeq SWI0d oYs P[NoM MOH {0U0s oUNSLIYD pey MOH 
“9A0] JO yNO 
‘poysesjun pue poljop A[ysel pey oy SOOJOJ [BOISeUI SY) JO UITJOIA 
B 9q 0} }odxe pjnoo pue Arepunog usppiqioy e puoksq sud 
pey oym oye} Asey e ul sourId snoIMuUsape Ue oy] OPI] & Way 
oH “WIY Ysnsio 0} 3ul0s sdeyiod sem yoy pue ‘puesIopun jou 
pip oy YoryM owes [eyuoW pue yeorshyd o[qeprmuoy e Jo 13jU99 
oY} Je SEM OF{ “SUTUTBOIP JOU SBM SY BINS SVM ET “SSOUIYSLIG 
TINJ sit 0) dn sy3t[se3 oy) powiny pue ‘ssouyeprues oy) ut podord 
‘Apoqg pouoyeme sty Jay ‘peoyoroy sty Wo Jeoms ot) podim of 


jdadasof aut oj nok pauiwyo soy Kuusaq 


SOL VaddO SHI JO WOLNVHd FHL 


901 


< JOISN| JO [OSUY OU S.arau} Jey) [JAM AIOA 
MOUY NOX jUlese Jey) UONUSU 0} SUIOS JOAd },UaIaM 9M IYSNOU} 
[,, Pos 148tq SurUM) sdvj Joy ‘powtepoxe sUNSUYD , .jeUey,, 
<</SN 0} YOeq Joy WYsNoIq 
sey yids Suipims Jopy,, ‘snuoeA euley] poyse ,.{aJowAue oun 
“SYD INO aZHUsOdeI NOA } “OP ‘AUseYD ap INdIsSUO|[ ‘{[2A\,, 
“QNJSIS B IO PIOM B 
jNOYM Joy Je polejs pue syoey sry ul poddojs oy yey) popunojse 
Os sem SY Ng “WY 0} pueYy JOY NO ppoy pue UONOU JUS 
-redde ynouyim dn pooys sys ‘Suryovosdde uy mes oys Ud AA 
“SUIOIOY S[qIsusyoidwiooU! 
S}I JOU SBM dYs JY) WYsNoy savy ISU oy ‘Buys3nys usoq pey 
UBLEOM BuUNOA snOLIo}sAUI SU) YOTYA UL BUTeIP s[QIPsIOUI oy) JO 
ISTSOA ISL] SY} WIY 0} PoUIZ0s JOU PeY somNjesy dfqeiope 10y I9AO0 
peoids Afoyouvpaur Jo [Io au} J] ‘a10Joq Aep oy) Jo sovy oI3ey 
oy) Mes IOsUO] OU [noeY ‘posesddesip pey soo Joy punore s3uu 
YsIn]q YL “SY9aYyo S SUTSLIYD 0} pouINjor pey SIOTOO ysaiy “YOM 
ee A[Uapreul IaA0 poues] soko JopUs 10 ‘peayaioy Joind 
B “IBF [BAO JONSAO] & PRY IOAON “d0R] SUTeUT sem sUTISEIYD 
‘apispoq Joy 1V ‘Surpruy ‘ poq ut dn Sums sem Ape] plo ayy 
| ‘ammjord Sulueyo ev uodn sued af] 
‘JOY jnoge Yse oO} JUUNede s sniseA LURAY 0} JUOM AUSeYD ap 
[novy JUNOSSTA ‘sosuas STY }QnOp WY opeUr [[NS yey) JUSUIa[Zzzep 
JO pury & url saXa sIy sJ0JOq poysTUeA SUSY YaLIV AVC AH], 


PIO A s,UPW oU],, 
JO SWIeN] AY} 193104 JSNP NOX 


LIL 


“SYsIs Surpuanwoy Zuravoy sem Ape] 
Plo oY} osnedoq ‘sossoIVd IPIM JOY WOJWOS 0} poLn sys puy ‘pres 
ays ,,jWIY sAdl[eq 3,U0p ‘eweUl Jwop ‘WY SAdTIOQ },00q,, 
‘SUIIY JOY UI JOY YOO) pue Joy 0} JUOM AppoInb suysuYyD 
"WOISSOIGXS POIJLU9} & UJIM SUNSUYD 0} pow) snioyeA ewWeyy 
,, 4ay}03o} ind syids pue s}soyzs |e uey) 
paleo oq 0} aJow yonu ArajsAu Aye ue Ss dJoyj—oUnsSIYyD 
punoze ‘noA punore—sn punose yey) SI SUOIM S.jJeUA,, 
. josuodsns Jo sIp oul oyeur 
noA aJOJoq SUI [JO], {OWeU S,UdAROY UI ‘UdT) ‘SUOIM S.JeYM,, 
J OISNIA] JO [OSU OU ST BIOY} yey) J[aSIoY NOA po} oYs,, 
<.GJOISOdUIT Ue ST DISH JO [asuY oU],, 
_ {UI poo s9y Jo oSeyueape Surye} st Jo}sodun uy,, 
_ GAUZeYD Op INSISUO| ‘UT OYS SE Iosuep YU AA {UI oINssval 
0} AX} nod pip AUAA joUNSUD ‘SurmjAIOAD OUI [][9} Jsnu NOZ,, 
“Buidses ‘poultefoxe Ape] plo oareu ‘poos oy) ,,jpoy AW,, 
“WUT 0} SUTYPUI SEA SUTASLTYD Jey) 
susIS 9U} Jo ayIds Ul 11 ‘A[snoaSemoo poromsuv [Novy ..‘sox,, 
_ GJOBURP UI SI OUISUYD,, "polio ays , {UROL NOA Op jJeyAA,, 
"peq 
Joy UO AJOATS[NAUOD POAOU sNaeA PUR] ‘SPIOM osoy) IV 
. SUNSLY.) ‘UINOIA Ss} oq Aqeury Aeur nox “j 
pojsuejun } UsAPY OM SB SUOCT SB SNOJOsULp 9q [[IM Jey) oINJUOApR 
JO\SIUIS B NOge ‘snioTeA sUTEpRPY WIM ‘ALIOM 0} OU BUOT OO} 
puowy moA usaq 9A] puy “Nod 0} [NJULIeEY 9q Aeur yey) AdoID0S 
@ SuTUTeUTEUL UT JsIsIod A[WIOQqn)s },UpIP NOA JI UTese NoA SuIIeS 
ye poXoliaA0 9q p,J “WOOS Os yoRQ 0q p,NoAd yey) JOOdxX9 OUI opeUl 
ZUIYJOU—SSONns 0} B[qGe sem | yeYM ‘OU 0} pres Nod yeym ‘Ap 
-Ia}soA sn uoemjoq poueddey yey, “JOyJoW sandope moA WIM 
NnoA pul] 0} poyysIjap pue postidins yI0G UWI,.] “SZI[esI 0} SUIOD 
Ajpenusae Avur nod yey) orZap & 0} OUI s}so1sjUT NOA SuTUIEDUOD 
SumpAJoAq,, ‘Suioaenb wo. 1 yUOAOId JOU p[Nod ynq ‘saviq pue 
WIJ SOIOA STW SYPU 0} POL) oY ‘pres jnoeYy , “ony JOU s jeyL,, 
_ AUSEYD OP INIISUOJ] ISOIOJUI },USSOP STU) [Te ‘eWePL,, 
. Gounsuys ‘yey ou postuoid 
no savy Ng {OW SAeZ] 0} JoAoU osTUIOId NOA },UOp AYA,, 
.jsuonsonb osou Aue oul yse 
0} 10U pue ‘Udy [[ JOTIS 9q 0} ou posTwoId Nod Ing °° * “ued 
J edoy { ‘uoos SurmppAroAo urejdxo 0} posmmoid | ‘euey,,, 
<iPItgo Aur ‘syjuour cal) Joy suosso] NOA dav oY 104,, 


LOT VasdO FHI JO WOLNVHd 4HL 


Suraey ouoAue asneseq ‘Mes J IYSNOY] | JYM JOVI IO—pIp | 
yury) noA uey) dow Mes [| pue—Mes | yeyM NOA |[[3} DUI 39] 
Ng “WIM poussou0ds oq 0} YSU OU savy Ajqeqoid | ssunp 
UI a[Ppoul SUI SoyVUT MOU Jey) BSUITIOJ sjQuIoUOY 9y} MOUY 
noxX ‘pip [ se nok 0} Suryeods Joy Wl DAIZIOJ aseoid,, 
Joy pajydnusjul [noey ‘way) Usemjog yeolq JUuoUBULIOd 
B souNoUUe 0} JNOGe seM YS preye pue ‘poqmyed Ajdooq 
cc «OW JOJ 
SY {Y3nous Zuo] UO 9U08 sey UONeSOLIS\UI STE) YUP NO< 3,U0q,, 
‘poyesadsexs ‘ounsuYys pres ,.j0} poyuem J yeyM poromsue J,, 
<<GFOMSUB SYS PIP Jey puy,, 
“APE] PfO oy} PoUlTEpoxa , jJOY po} [ YM SJeUL,, 
.,jpoydosoe uaeq sey osruoid oy} pue ‘ostmoid e si Sul yeu], 
{AOU [TNS ou amyo) AYA {SN ZuTAIa.ep uo o8 AYA jpuegsny 
Nok sWI099q 0} sodoy oyM UeU oy) Aq NOA 0} UDAIS Ud0q ZALY 
Ajuo ues Zu yey) ‘puegqsny OU sARY NOA d9UIG joUNsYD,, 
"JUOWISseLeqUID Joy Opry 
0} 3utAQ AyUreA pue ulese SuTysniq ‘pres sys , ‘WIS eB S.I],, 
“yoeq 
y moip Appornb sys ynq puey Joy JO ploy oye} 0} porn oH 
¢< SUL 
SUIPPoM eB SuLeoM a1.noA }oA pue ‘pueqsny ou sAey NOX,, 
‘Josuly Joy UO SUL pos & Mes oy asNedAq 
osje ynq ‘pxeoy ysnf pey oy yeyM Jo ssned0q AyUO jou ‘ayed 
pou} oF] “UWATOS AIOUI spJOM JOY DyeUI 0} YSNoy) se ‘[Noey 
pyemo} puey Jay yno ynd sys ‘AT[eoneydwe sip pres sys sy 
,,{AWVUI JOAOU [][,J pue ‘pueqsny ou 
saey | Ng “‘puegsny AUT :1 NOQGe WI []9} | JeUuY pueWwop oO} 143 
® SAY pyNoM ppJOM oy} UT URW sUO ATUO ‘syaom OM} Jsed oY) UT 
QUOP 9A,] JeYM IOJ SY “I Sutop dojys 0} noA yse | pue JoIAeyoq 
AU J2AO Yo}eM dooy 0} YSU OU savy NOX ‘AuseYyD op Moisuopy 
‘asvaid | se Op 0} d0JJ W.J,, ‘A[HYysney pres suNsuYD , jastuoid 
yey) NOA SAI },U0M | pue JUSUIDAISe JY} JOJ NOA Ys }.UOM T,, 
<, UO MOU Woy Bur 
-dooyayes mo ut Avjs 0} astwold [][,noA Jr sed ay) ynoge uoNsenb 
Q[SuIs & NOA Yse O} JOU 99IBe [][,9A\ “OW PU JOYJOU! MOA sIMsseal 
ued jeU}) Zury} ATUO dU} Sj] “OUSLY ‘}ey) osTWOId JsnuI NOZ,, 
sayods oyM [Novy sem I “JUD[IS pourewel OUNSTIY 
‘Ioy possoq 
SNUIVA CURA , jUTese UI SALI] IJOAOU [][,NOA OUI [[9} UOT,, 


XNOLF] U0SYS) SOT 


«iT poweu 
SI SISN] JO [OBUY MOX “JOADIO}J OW WOIJ Opry Pnos nod JYysnoyy 
noA oureu oY} MOUY 3SvdT 1B | “OUNSLIYD ‘Sumpou synb j0N,, 
.«.¢yhoge suryjou mouy nod uvew ev ‘smouy suo 
ou UeU B ‘UdaS JOADU 9A.NOA UeU B UUTOpUOD Nod op AUAM,, 
« OUNSHYD,, 
<.GUeoU NOA yeYyM yeu) 
SJ {[OOJ B SI [MS oy) JO [OIpUNOdDS B ST URW OY) JOYE UdU],, 
«. ’ ' BIS & DONpss 0} sUROU OFURUIOI Yons sasn,, ‘wuTY 
Ssuluopuege Y)sueNs sity SUIT} ‘panuyuos oy , .‘URUT e USN A,, 
‘uoIssoidxe Aigue ue ym soXd oy} Ul IYSTe]s 
WIY SUTOOT ‘oUNSLYyD pres ,.‘espnf 0} ouoTe our JOJ S.JeU],, 
<< PAO] Jay JO AYVIOM ST SOAOT SYS UBUT dT) 3eU) dINs 
j0U UW] ‘Iedsap AUI JoJ UOseoI ATUO OY} JOU S.Jey) Ng ‘ oAOId 
0} SUIses SUTAIDA “WITY SAO] SOOp Sys YUTYD J,, ‘sIes) sty yorq 
Ploy 0} afqeun ‘A;quiny por[dal oy , ‘ourepeur ‘AjoeuNOJUN,, 
_,juseouos nok 
OU $,31,, “A[Ysey pres sys , .“JUNODSIA ‘UU JY) SOAOCT SUS Jy,, 
‘Joy UIA popts ATUSppns snuoyeA CUTE 
‘[hovy 0} usyods pey suNsHYD YoY WIM AjI[THsoY oy) Bursa¢ 
,, SUV STY MOUY 
Joaou [IM nod,, ‘ATp[oo pres sys ,,‘AuseyD sp IMsIsuOy,, 
.iZ08uly INoA UO Sul pos e ynd 07 Ayoepne oy} pey oym UeW oy) 
jo oWeU oY} OW [JO], “OUNSLYD ‘owRU s,UeUT yey) OUT [[9) ‘aUIOD 
jJ19smoX Jo oytds ut NOK oaks [[,2A jS8UOfEq SdIOA yey) WIOYA 
0} OUI puke ssaToRjousg INOA [][9} 00} OU POAC] pue ‘Yyonu os no 
PeAo] OYM pue UdAROy UL MOU SOYA ‘I9U}eJ INOA Jo oWeU 9Y) UT 
“USABOY JO SUIVU OY) UT] j[OUNSLYD jSUNSLIYD “yo, pey NoA Moy MOUy 
1,UpIp | pue soko Aur aJ0joq poreoddesip nod yeu) 1 0} pousysty] 
] S[IGM poouenus Os sem J asnedoq ‘snoJosuep AISA SI 9OIOA JEU], 
{jesue ue Sureoy oom Aypeod nod JI se ‘jUeIpel soRy INOA YIM 
dn pues nod pip AYA ZUTeSe sou0 WHY MOTO} NOA pip Ay uot) 
jng “oIsny, Jo Jesuy OU st aloy) Aes mou noX souTs ‘uoNdacap 
oy} JO aleme sUl0d9q 9A,NOA suIdOS HI OX j[jeds snolosuep 
B Jopun o1,noX jnoA Joy preye os sul soyeUu yeYM S.Jey) puy 
jadnjdps INOK ‘SX *SINOK 0} JXdU WOOT BUISSOIP & WOT JO ‘[TEM 
9} WO} SUTWIOD 3DIOA 9} JO pUNOS 9U} Je aINJdeI INOA Mes T,, 
<cGMeBs NOA YUTY) JO ‘90s NOA pip 7eyA,, 
<< SOAO 
STY SAdI[Oq 0} pley YW puly Apjemnjeu [IM doUeLIEdxo ue Yons 


60T VdaadO AHL dO WOLNVHd JHIL 


‘yuaned oq jsnu oy 7ey) 
J[eswiy Sutljo} pue YW Sutsmd “Jo, pue spuey Joy possry oH 
‘Aep yey) posueyoxs Aoy) sp1oM jse] ou} SIOM BSOU], 
_, yuem nod yeYyM IVOMS | UOTL,, 
_,- MOHOUWIO J, , 
« GUST AM,, 
.. osTuosd J,, 
_ ¢SOUHOWIOS 3194} SULOD OF OUT yse 0} osFUIOId NOA [ITA,, 
_, 01 NOX Yse | SSoTUN WOOT ZUTssoIp 
AW OW sO UIRSe IOAOU [[,nOA Jey] JOMS PUY,, ‘“PoISISUT 
ays _.‘jNO PUly 6} WORD OU syVUI |{,NOA Jey SUI 0} IWOMG,, 
“PalIPOYMIOAO 
sem [noey ‘ojdood. uno om) 94) poyeredos souDpIs V 
_ JUNee UO o[qIAI9} BJOUI OUOU SAO] ,, 
. GAIOISAU OTQUIIO) B YONS APfVdI I ST,, 
,  SOIOA S,UeT 3y}, Jo AroysAuT oy) oJeOUOd 0} AQ UFeSe IDADU 
ysnu NOA puy “psvsyJOAO NOA dUIeU ST) OY) JOQUIOWIOI UOAD JOU 
PUE .dOIOA S,URU oy}, JOSIOJ ysnwI NOA,, ‘pres sys , ,“fNOeY,, 
‘poysturantp Apeope SPA MOLIOS SRY JEU} 
JOT dy 9Ze3 Joy Yyeoueq pue ‘afqedvo sem oYs YOIYM JO ssoupuOoy 
aind oy) [fe YIM WY Je peyxoo, pue spuey sIy Yoo} syg 
"gos B yOrq pfoy JOU p[nos 
ays yey) Hedsap pue sao] YoONUI Os YIM pIOM Jey) oyOds of] 
6¢ : aqhey, 9 
GPO] 9q 03 yuem NoA 
pid, ‘Jeoj yeas Jo usis AIOAD SUIMOYS ‘POLI sys , jOU ‘YO,, 
_ astdaid aJ0ul aq 0} ‘IIopnog InoA 
UI—WOO0!1 BUISSoIp INOA UI SseM |] ‘JOOP INOA Spis}No 7 ,USeM T,, 

__jJOOp AW SpIsyno Pous)sI] NOA dU PUODIS oy) SUM JLUL,, 

_ NOA pIesyIJOAO OYM [NOVY JoOd eB se 310Y) ‘OUTISLIYD ‘POM 
pq 100g, ‘pres noA ‘ui001 Bulssorp MOA OUT oUTeD NOA OY AM 
‘[feq poyseul oy Jo WYySTU oY) “SIU JoyJO aU UNTY SuTAyId Ag,, 

«6 M0H,, 
..GnOA pjo} OYM °° * OYAA,, ‘PoloUFUIR}S pu YIO[O IeIe 
WE SE SIIYM powsn) oyg “AToJeIpoWIUT Jjassoy poAvNeQ SUNSLIYD 


XNOLT]. UOISVS) OLLI 


IIL 


_ JPOOJSIOPUN S JEU], “POLJEUT 9qQ IJOAU [],omM 
puy juoysanb oy} Jo yno seu) MOU NOX j[NoeY ‘j0INd,, 
‘YNOU! STY IOAO puLY Joy ynd ous 
_ JOAAOJ JOYIO YOR JOJ WeM pu posesud sUIOIEG OM SsTUN,, 
. JOADIO} 
—2Aq-poos IdYJO YORd [[9} 0} SAVY [],dM UJUOU! & UT JEU) puy,, 
. ¢JUeIpel OS d9RJ INOA soyeU Jey Jeu) ST, 
., UIeZE IOYIO YOR 99S JOADU [][,9M JEU} SUTAUIY) W.],, 
. GouysuyZ ‘Jo suryury) nod ase yeyA,, 
‘MO[SE SOAD JOY JOS PRY yeY} SUTJOWOS ‘OUT ISIIT 
oY} JO} Joy 0} paumMds0 ysnf pey yey) SurMJOWOS Jo SuryUIy) 9q 
0) pouloes aug ‘Buryof Jasuo] ou ‘SUITS JoSUO] OU sem 34S 
‘Apomb pres oys , ‘J Aeul os,, 
, {UORNpadxe yey} 
ZuULINp oIp ABU | [UTese IOYIO YOVd 99S IOADU [[,9M SQGARIA,, “pres 
ay ,.gSsuly) snoles yons ynoge ApPUsI] Os ye} NOA ued MOH,, 
‘ZUOT JSP] JOU P[NOM SMOLIOS 
QSOUM pyIyo & WIY polfes ays ‘wry 0} jeadde jou pIp dao] NOWIM 
AJO[3 yey} posomsue oy uoyM puy “AJOT[S sINyNy sty premo} dojs eB 
SB ISBAOA JEU) 0} PIEMIOJ YOO] 0} ‘ATTes JsoW]e ‘wy posin sys 
‘JSOUI OY} JB YJUOU eB JO 
‘SyaoM daly) Ul 9OUBI] SAROT P[NOM oY Jey} pue pIeMIOJ poaow 
useq pey uoNIpodxe Jejod oy) Jo aImpedop oy) ye} JOY po) 9H 
‘Igared sy ‘omnyny sty ‘sueyd sty ynoge WIY YIM payye) 
pue ‘Wy 0} puly pue opUes sem oY “JOsUTJ Joy uo B3ulI pos 
ay) pey [Ns yg ‘elodG oy) Je Ulese Joy MUS OY ‘AVC LXAN FH] 


s1oopdeiy, 94} sAoqy 


cL 


“ouI0Y 
quom [noey pue Ajdol ou opeul sYyg “WI Jo} Jjasiay poyoeold 
-o1 A[Jo}Ig pue sures oy) Jo JoSuep oy} pozifeal A[uoppns oys 
‘AJIqissod jeu) JO }YSNoy} jou pey sUNSUY ‘aoud.0UUT JOY UT 

<<i210d YON 34) 0} 03 },U0M J,, 

SSPIOM YSTTOO] ssoy) YIM ‘sutAetd poddojs oy pue yny Aj[peq sem 
yeoy S,[noey—oules Moy) Jo Aep WYSIo sy) sem 7I—Aep 9uO 

‘Woy SUTINY NoWIMN 

WI9Y} YOIed 0} [NTFS AOA 9q 0} pey Ady) ‘yVOJ pue yorq passo} 

Aap yey) syesy Itsy} AT[eal sem 3 99UTS ynq ‘,,J7eq Aeid,, sis 

se , sweoy podeyd,, Acyl ‘sieo) pue Ja}ysne] usomjoq ‘IY3ITap 

[njzeoy WIM pooustodxe Aoy} Jey) UONLTSe ue oOJUI Way) MoI) 

SMOA 9S0Y) dooyx 0} DUO OU 9q IYSTU aJ9y) YOU & Jo pus oy} 32 

yeY} BOP OY] jSMOA [eUIa}9 AUB Os poSueYoOXS pu ‘Joy}O YyoRd 

0} SSUTY) SNOpIATeUI YOns pres Aoyy, “oJom Ao) UarpyIyo ond oy) 
oy] W pokofus Aoy) pue pom oy) UT oes Jsonjoid oy) sem 1] 

. jAetd [om ‘SouMuURoW oy) UT 

"ojtm AU 9q 0} JUOSUOD [[,OY4S YUOU ev UT puR ‘yt AoNsSop pue dn 

WI IWI[D 0} JO ,ddI0A S,UBUT oy) JO AJo\SAU 9U}, J98IJOJ Joy ayeUI 
O} SUIT} SARY [[,J YOU v Uy] jYseI ZuIAQg S.dYS,, ‘1Ysnoy) [noey 

<< OJIM OINIHZ & pue puLgsny 

ommny ev sutoq ye Avy [],9A4 jAddey os 3q 0) SuIOs a1,aM ‘[nory 
‘YO jg0ueTy Jeop Aw ‘spuey AW yjoq savy Apeagye noX 3ng,, 

., puey Ino Joy no 
suryse JO JouOY sy) savy | ‘d[[9SIOWOpey,, ‘pres pue AyrpuNy 
years YIM Joy 0} pomog oF ‘ApoyeIpawmt Ayyeor e yt oye 
0} payueM pue evopl yey) ye Idea] Off “poojsiopun pey fnoey 

., 00 OU TRY [TM yey) ssourddey e st,, ‘pres ays ,‘sIy],, 

“Ulese 
SNOLI9S SWeDEq SYS USY], “eopl Joy WIM poAofioao sem syS 

co OFT] 
AU JO }SaX 9Y} JOJ YUOUT yey} Jo AJOWOUW sy) YM Addey aq [I] 
pue ‘ovat [[,noA yOu eB Uy “\soIvop AU ‘IWUOUI B JOT poseSus 
O1,9M\ jJUSWIosesus JOINS B Oq UkD SIO) puke ‘soseLUEUI }OID0S 
useq oAPY OY], j[Noey ‘Mouy [[IM sn jnq sU0 ON jpasesue oq 
UDI aM,, ‘UO JIM YS ,,“PoLLeul oq },uUed OM YSnoy)ye 3ng,, 

‘Way} JO JUosold & UIY SyeU 0} paploop pey sys JI se 
“UNTY 0} Way) SAS SYS JoyJeI JO ‘WIY 0} spuey Joy no pysy ous 
‘poxodiod pue powiom ‘oy 
12 PoYOo] SH “ISIOp YsSIp[Iyo WIM spuey Joy paddejo syg ‘urey 
-U0d A[SOIBDS P[nod sys yey) Aof [oof 0} poulaas ATUOppns sys 


xnola] U0jsvs) ZIL 


QdI0A Oy} Puy ,,"NOA 0} OU Jnq ‘UTeSe [NOS Joy oAvS Ys JYSIUO]T 
‘Joy 0} J! BABS OYM UO oY} jOU O1,nOA pue ‘ZULI pjos ay ues 
[IMS S,dYs 1YSUOL,, ‘eo sty UI pomnuULINU soI0A Aemerey y “SulZ 
plod Joy ZuLEaM [[NS sem oys yey) MES OY OSNedEq ‘YduNLy mou 
JY JO SIOYS9 SSoPJUNOD 9Y) 0} PoUd}s!] oY SB Paloyyns oyM suo 
Ajao oy} sem oY pue ‘osmMOd Jo “WYysTU Jey) JUOSoId sem [NOY 
“WUSISNYIUS P[IM YIM POAIIAI SeM aAING DT UI 
souruliojiod Joy *A[Lesodurs) Jay ooev[dal 0} poyse sem ounsLy 
"JOBNUOD Jay Yeorq 0} ABM & PUNOJ YS “JOY 0} sNoIpo sUIOD0q 
pey Joysesip s[qisusyoiduiooul Isy JO ousds oy) pue ‘ZurtZuIs 
Jo a[qedeour Joy opeul pue yesY Joy pal[ly YeoId Jayjoue Jo Jeay 
‘OSEIS SY) 0} WIMOI 0} BIQe US0q JOU peYy BNOTIeD ,,‘peo},, oy) 
JO SINJUSAPRSTU SY} DOUIG “soURULIOJIOd eyes oy} JO ssaoons Areu 
-Iploeynxa Joy pemoucr ATfeuly oyg ‘yduiniyn ut poreeddeal sys 
‘porvoddeal sunjsiyD usu, ‘usw jo ysorddeyun 
oY} SPM dy SINOY IYSIO-AYOJ Joy pue ‘poropunyq A[pidms Zuraey 
JO J[aSWIY pesndoe d]{ “UOOS Os }I jNOge JOY Plo} savy Jou pynoys 
oy ynq ‘purl sty posueyo pey oF ‘UONIpodxa sejod sy) WIM 
SABQ] P[Nom sy Jey} USy) Usamjoq poo}ssJopuN Ud0q peY I jI[Ney 
UMO SIY SBA I puy jssourddey yous Apeoye Moy) wor Aeme 
uoye) skep OM], ** * Shep OM] 29q SUNSLIYD pinoo au 
BU) OFT 
UBUIOM po ue Aq popleNns [JOM SI [IS Yy,, ‘A[snororew yYyZnow 
oy ‘sires oY} UMOP SUIOVI sem pu JOY Yo, pey oy uoyA 
‘OUT SUS OY} 3e WUTY orNs 
“SBI pUB UONAIOSIP a3In 0} SuIpusjur ‘ssouspUSs SuTyoNo} YM 
SITY} ples oys se JosUIJ Joy postel sys puy ,,"}0190S sous 
Sey, ‘Poyomsue AyoIoUI sys suoTsonb yYysNOIMIOAO sTY OT, 
“sulyjou Mouy AjsnorAgo sys jngq 1J3y JO INO UOTeUIOJUT s10UI 393 
O} pol} 3H “Wyo SUIpuNo}se Yyons YIM JeU} SAT] SMOU WY SUTATZ 
JO} sniseA vue, poyey Pf “YOnNsJopuny) sem noey “19}e] 
sAep OM} YOeq SWIOD pynom sys SutXes ‘Yd0]9,0 SATJ ye alojaq 
Aep op 39] pey sys ‘shep om) JOJ OUT 9q P[NOM ouUNSITYD Jeu} 
WIY plo) oy ‘sniIsyeA PUY 0} PoLLMY oY SUTUIOU! yxoU SUT, 
‘qyUOW yey) SuLMp Aep AI9A9 JOJO YORS 0} 9}LIM 0} UOTISSTULIOd 
SOAJASUIOY) USAIS pey Ady) Ysnoy) UdAS ‘JOY WOT Joye] Tensn 
94} SAIODOI JOU PIP 9Y PUY “SUIS JOU pIp sys BuIA. JeUT, 
"31qe} OY} UO s}O[OIA Jo Jonbnog ev WIM ‘Od Jo sasse{s om) 
PUB SOTYOOS 9dIY} JO SUTJSISUOD , SIOUUIP,, SUTARPY AQ SdATOSUIOT} 
pesnue Asy) soy pue sovid yoo) skemye ssUT}OOUI Tay) oIO4M 
‘WOO SUISSSIP $,SUNSLIYD UI ‘UOOUIAe oY) Ul pauoddey stu], 


eIl VdaddO AHL JO WOLNVHd SHL 


Jayjns Joy syeu 0} SuNUeM JOU ‘os pu ‘oy poyse sy suoTsonb 
9) JO JSOW JOMsUB }0U P[NOD sYS Jey) UITY 0} SNOTAGO seM I] 
"Ja}eay} uy} JO yep 
uey} sJoydsoune Joyo OU sY}eOIq 0} poUWepUOd Useq pey sys 
PUL JOADIO} JOY 0} UOPPIGIOJ s19M YS [eal oY) pue ‘sIOMOT] [eal 
‘sarys yeor jr se ‘ueul Aylodoid ev Jo spuey por[rys oy} Aq yno yno 
u90q prey sjuetd SuIquIT[D ssoyM Uspses ev Jo syyed poyiasop su} 
Suoje WY WIM palopuem pur puey sIy poy cys ‘Aep Joyjouy 
“QOUBULIOJIOd JXOU 9Y) JOJ OS OUDDS-}SIJ B JO SSoUYsoI snoIqnp 
pue coved ou) UT UleJUNOJ & JO WLI UapoomM day} UO Joy YIM UMOp 
VS O} WITY payse pue o3e}s OY} 0} WTY yoo) sys Ing © * * “YU 
powreu sopref oy} ‘syfem sy UryIIM SurAour Joyrel om yoy ApUISue 
ay {pref e aJom WI JI se poyey oy SUIpying yey) Wor Aeme IVY 
‘UNOS OY} UI SUNNO Ue UO O83 0} Woy} poem sys JYSNOU} OL 
_, pood sn op [[IM Ie Jo asueyo 
oul, ‘noey ‘aloy wor Aeme jos $.07,, ‘pres oys AT[euLy 
‘AemAue wily presy oys ing .,jsnoyeof w.j jsnoyeol w,] 
jsnoyeol ul.J,, ‘SUNNOYS WoOIJ J[OSUITY poureNsal off “SurTYyJOU pres 
pue sofa pes Toy) YIM JOJO Yoee Je poyoo, Ady) WOO SuUIssoIp 
Jay Ul “SAdT[aq-oyeU SuTUTeYS sy) Jo [Jods oy) uoyYoIg pey 
gouasqe Jo skep om} 9So0y) ApoyeuNJOJUN ynq “Yoeq sued JET 


<<iJ43TU0} NOA Joy Sues 
[—Addey 0q puy ‘90uely Jeop AU ‘MOLIOWO} [[TL,, ‘Wou) presy 
oY ULY} S1OU SpIOM Joy possons oy ey) APJOS Os “WITY 0} pres sys 
ploysemy) oy) UO seM sy UOYAA “JOOP sy} 0) poyutod Apdniqe oys 
UdY], ‘Jedy JOU P[Nod sy SUIYJOWIOS 0} UD}SI] 0} Poulos pue 90RIq 
-WId: prt) ‘apues sty wo Aeme Jjosioy por[nd sys ATuoppns 
"JI WINOU! 0} J94j0T0} SWIOD peYy pue ssoy UOUTTOD 
B paraygns ysnf pey oyM JO}SIS pue JOYIOIG SUTADLIS ve SXI] JoyIO 
yoes possny Aoyy, “MOTf sievo} Joy yo] SYS “WY postwold pey 
ays ssourddey [eopt ay} Wo Noy sour suo AeME dye} 0} JOU JOY 
po3geq pue uonipodxs IJvjod oy) YM sAROT P[NOM oY BIOMS dH 
“"WIOOI BUISSAIP OU} UT SPM OY SB WOOS SB SSOUY STY O} [[oJ [NORY 
_ jSMOopepuess §j],, ‘POINULINU pue JOOP poso[d Joy Je Pdyoo] 
oyM AJo[s BunoA Joy JO SIOINOD oY) [fe JOJ WIS0U0D OU WIM 
WIOOI SUISSIp Joy 0} WIY poy pue , .jAppornb ‘oulo|D,, ‘wy 0} pres 
ous ‘WIY JO} SuTyOo], sam soXo Joy osnedeq ‘WTY MES oY “Aq 
ssed p[nom cys MouUy oy BOY poo}s pue oSejsyoug poLLMyY 3H 
.<pIaa yse pue of ysnur nod ‘sem ays asoyM Jo ‘skep omy 
JS] Oy) Sup pip sys yey no ]]9} 1,UOM OYS J],, :ponunuos 


XNOLIT UOjJSD®) Pil 


JOO[F PUNOIS dy} WOT, ‘so1J0}s Ud9JUDAOS ZULIOAOD ‘asUdUTUTT NG 
[elon sem Yor ‘aliduso Joy JOAO [Je WIY Yoo) sys os puy 
"S}YSIPOO] SuLTe[s ay) asojoq SIsnur 
WIM sapesed pue ssurucAd poyeurunyy! ApUelT{iIq cos ulese prnom 
Aay} yey) Woy) Surstwoid ‘A~pury wey) 0} syods sys ‘sIoLUeEM 
jo sjsoys Ajsnp ‘ssayuonour oy) [je poyoodsur pue ‘sownyd pue 
“spfarys ‘soouvl ‘soumnjsoo .syysruy ‘Aloury Apnesd jo [pny ‘oovjed 
Joy JO WOOT SBA B OJUT [NOVY Yoo) sys ‘Aep JoWoue [Ns uO 
‘Apueo wloy) dAeS OUTISTIYD ‘ouNUROW oy) UT ‘spuouTeIp 
YIM poIsAod Bulag pue ‘seuLIoyyeq vuNd UoAD JO ‘seULIOTTeq 
suTwoseq JO sdoy oy) Ul ‘SuTyoR jJooy OPI] Wey) WIM ‘poylom 
pue poyzom Aoy) pue ‘ssuryooys yurd pue ‘smn 2431 ‘soorpoq 
yno-MoyT oJoM Apvorpe Asyy ‘pjo sieoX suTU 0} UdAdS SIS IO} 
SSEJO OU SBMA JE ,.jSoytod MOA yore AA [SPIS ‘dn JoquIry,, :d010A 
ura}s B Aq popfods WNOA pue ‘suloURp “I9;ySne] 0} Wo) poy Jey) 
JOPILIOO pIfOS & 0} ‘ST JY) SRULITT B19} 0} UMOP owe Aa) Udy], 
«ci FOTTRS B “nOX,, 
‘ynod s[qeJope Ue YIM WITY 0} pres ays ‘payepisay oy J] ‘suLepmed 
PUL S]SBUI JO JSOIOJ [LLIOe S[QRITIOA & JO SPW dy) UT SOyOUIM 
pue sfoj[nd 0} poyseye sodoi Jo spuesnoy) oy} Suowe ‘JOT 
SUISSII 94} JO SOSspLIg SISeIZ Oy} UO WTY Fo JUOY ul ZurmunI Aq 
AZzZIp wy Suryeur poAofus sys asym ‘sory Joddn ay) Jo Jopsosip 
JUSOTJIUSEU SY OJUT ‘spno[o oy} UeYY JOYsIY WI poy sys puy 
.<Jo10Y ‘Op 0} st Jey) Aseo MOY 99S [[,NOX j;AYs oy} OUT 
} DP} S JOT OS,, “UO USM OYS , “ULIBO UO PRS 00} ST SAO] INO,, 
‘Ajdol ou apeul sy ‘ayeTOsuOoSIG] 
<«, UOISATT! 
ue Ajuo st ‘Aes 0} pes ‘00} W pue ‘PpoyUSAUT SEM 00} JI JOUTS 
‘tnoey Aur ‘aay OWIOY 3B SI SAOT INO Jey} OUT [[9) OS ‘ajdoad Areu 
-Ipio dAOgP Je} JOMO} OYM S}o0d Aq poyUSAUT o19aM Ad) asnedaq 
‘siayjo Aue Wey) OUITEQNS OIOWI SoUdDS SAOT passoujIM sey Jeu) 
[f@—pold poyured Jo opeul soseul ssoy} ‘siogze ssoy) ‘spoom 
DSOU} “S][eM SSOU) 18,, ‘SOU WIIY 0} pres oys ,.‘[NoOeY ‘yxOo'T,, 
“puey 
YSHdAdJ Jay possoid oy o[TYM poyoxo MOIS pf—nom sySg “aMeuU 
UI pUNO; sIofoD Aue oyTPUN ATTe}0} O19M ‘pres sys ‘yey} SIO[OO Jue 
-3[9 WIM I WOpe pfnom uUOTeUIseUTT ATOAT] JOF{ “suOTSNTT sonp 
-O1d 0} PoJUOAUE 3UBIOS yeu] JO Ajnvaq snotInds oy) ynoge jTaSIOY 
pUe UY SATODOp 0} POL A[IAVIQ SYS SOWITJSWIOS ‘dOULISIP & WO 
[Apt A[OyoURaUE TIO) JOAO SuTyoyEM ‘passed uBWaN e uoU) pue 
MON ‘[[@ ¥ Joy uoRSonb 0} yeONPeI suIODAq peYy oy ‘A[SSOTPooU 


SIT VaddO FHL dO WOLNVHd SHI 


_ {UY 0} S8UOTEq pUNOIZIepuN SuTyPAIOA “OUI 0} SUOTAq 1,USSOpP 
yi puy joayoy) 08 7,UJsNU NOX jJOAON,, ‘SUTTQUION ‘30I0A MO] 
B UI WY 0} pres pue sfoy Yyou[q ou} OJUT Jeoddesip WIIY SuIdes Jo 
pleqe oJom ays JI se sue Joy UI WIY podseyo sys ‘sIy) SuLeop 
ecb tt 
0} UMOP O8 9M ]TeYS °° © “Wed JOMOT 9) INOgGe PO} ase SaTIO}s 
esuens jnqg ‘ounsiyD ‘omduwe mod jo yed Joddn 94} oul UMOYsS 
9A NOX,, ‘ples pue sskqe yep oy} JOAO pours, oy ‘Joopden 
~ uodo Apyed & 0} sured pur a8e}s oy) UO oom Ady) UsYM 90UO 
_ {SUMOU salou) JeoMms 
I jsUmMoNn,, ‘ATYSHoAdJ Jomsue pynom oys uonsonb e poyse 
UIAD pey sy sIOJoq ynq ‘sestuIoId sty Jo ayids ur Joy UONsanb 
oy ‘yye) 0) AQ prnom Noey ‘sie9} Ul popus USO Jey) Ysney] 
Suidse3 eb yim ,,‘AeM SIQL,, Uo) pue ,.‘Aem STY],, Uoy) pue 
(ABM SIYT,, ‘Ino AID pfnom oyg ‘smopeys ATeUIseUT SUTMOT[OJ 
9q 0} poulses souTjoUIOS SoXd JOH] “YOR [NOVY poy prnom “poo 
pouim Apuejsur suraey ‘puey Joy pue Apdnigqe dojs prnom sys 
gs[o JO ‘UOSeaI OU JO} SuTUUNI UIs9q prnom sys suOTIpedxs Joy} 
ZulING “snoAsJou ATasus}UT ouIeD0q ATUSppNs OM) dy) JO JosUONS 
oy) 9q 0} paAoid pey Udy} []H OUM ‘oUNSTYD :ureyOO st SuUIY) 
UQ ‘IayJO Yows WOIF syeoy IY) Jo IYSNoY) s[OS 94) SPY 0} 
pel A[preMYMeE OUNSLYD pue [NorY ‘sio}eU SpIs|no UT JSoJOUT 
yeas aye) 0} Buruses Ag ‘jsed pomoyy sAep snoroid ‘snyy 
‘WIdY] PoIoqUISUIOI 9UO OU pUe ‘7 SUIZITeOI Itoy) noyIM Aq 
passed pey Alojisty YOUSI ‘opisyno ‘Uy PoYOO[IOAO pey sUOTINT 
-OAOI doeTed ‘oJay) Way} Us}}08I0J pey syuowoSeueUl yseg ‘sIVOA 
SSaPUNOD JOJ aay} peal] pey Aoy, ‘eIodg oy) ynq SuIyjJOU poloq 
-WOWIdI sojdnod plo ssoy], ‘pooypliyds Moy} UI soe} UOJOIg P[O 
0} pousyst] pey Aoy}) se ‘elodQ ay) Jo spuasey 0} uaxst] pue doid 
pojepideip oulos uo Ws pjnom Jhoey pue oyg ‘oseLeW UT pueYy 
Jay JO} poyse pey oYM SUTUIeYD OULIg B SB WOY}) 0} [NOY sonp 
-OUI pue JOOP ey} UO youy prnom syg ‘sojdnoo pro Aq poy 
-qeyut Apjoioes SuIpyIng au} Jo syed AeM-syj-JO-JNO MOUY oYS 
"sysinb opi] Joy pue soyqnoy 
JIOY) Ul JSOIO}UT UB YOO} SYS osNned0q JOY OY] 0} SUIOD |e pey 
Aay], “SUyWISpjos pue sloyewooys s19M BU, ‘sopen [je pod 
AyUNOD yey} JO sJULIQeYUT SUT, “S9OIOY JOJ SOUINYSOD OJUT pouIN) 
9q 0} SEM JY) YOO YOU dy) OUT Nd 0} poyeyIsOy spuey ssoyM 
SOSSATISUILAS OY} 0} DOIAPE POOS BUTAIZ ‘SUIO0IDIO}S UI UMOP SUN 
-VIS ‘YJOM Jay) Zulsemnoous ‘usenb sejndod ev ay] Woy} Suoue 
pessed oyg ‘sjoofqns jo Aumre ue Aq poviqeyul pue ‘Joo! 94) 0} 


XNOJa] U04SVE) 9LI 


<, OY Wy :preye oq },u0q,, ‘Aes 0} pouloes oY ‘oreunYsIU 
quaoal B Jo dus oy) ul [[Ms uosiod s[qeuorssaidumt ue preMo) ssop 
ouo se ‘Joy preMo) opnyMe SurAzid ve yoo) oy ‘AyjeuonuauUA 
<<{J0U 9SINOD Jo ‘ON,, 
“A[PIUIN poyse [noey , {WY Jo preye noX ary,, 
..Gasou) sem 
Ayjear oY JF VU M,, “Pres oy oYs seA II OUT) STy} pue ‘poysis yg 
"sulle Joy Ul WY SuIpjoy [[Ms sem ayg “WY Yor }OU peYy sys 
"WIY Ul SplyUOd 0} SsoUsUTTTIM sATeIUD} 
[IMs Joy 0} pus ue 3uNnd ‘yuIy) pue dojs Joy oyeUT WYSIUI DdIOA 
sTy JO punos oY} jeu) preye MOU SEM Jf] ‘BUITJOU pres [noey “Zur 
-Ua)ST] ‘JoopdeNn oy} preMo} pouvol pue urese paloppnys sys 
. SJoopden ym Avyd 
0} OWN SAvY },USSOp oY pue ULUT peop SUIAT] B S,oF] “s}ysTU pue 
skep s]0YM JOJ Jey) S¥I] UO soos oFy ‘soupeorq A[prey oy ‘yULp JO 
Jeo },USOp oY ‘ZuryJOU sods ay ‘Jey) UO SyJOM sy UDdYM :ALIOM 0} 
sn JO} psou ou s,azoy) Aes | AYM S$ je], j2[QLII9} SuIMpouOs, , 
‘poyse [NoRY ,.{UO SUTYIOM oy SI IeYA,, 
SIU} pres sys se polopphys sYy¢ 
<, ALIOM 0} SN JOJ PpooU OU S,aIdyJ, ‘SUIT 
owes oy} 38 SIOOpdeN aso[d pue uado pue YOM },UBd oF] ‘SOX,, 
¢ GSUTYIOM §,9H {ATTA ‘YO,, 
< {2UDPIOM 
$,oy ‘UI JIASWUTY NYS S.oF] jU90q SARY 1,UP[NOD oy ‘ON,, 
. COUNSHYD ‘asoy) sea Alpeor oy Jt YU AA,, 
,, SUIT) [JPY] 0} savy AdY) :sIOSO[D-JO0p 9y} ay] a1, ADU], 
‘uosval [elsods ou Joy sioopdey sy sso[d pue usdo Aoyy os ‘Sumy 
-OWIOS Op 0} savy AY], ‘SIOSO[S-JoopdeNn oy} seM 7 ‘ou ‘ON,, 
‘painssevol [[e ye UISOS JOU pIp jnq ‘pessnsys ounsuyD 
"pres Ajjeuly [noey ,‘alou) sem ay aqhey,, 
“pezep 
SUITIOJF YO] WIOG som Ady) pue ‘31 PIP yey? puey oY) s08 j0U 
pip Aoyy yeu} ATUsppns os ‘poso[d sem Joopdey oy) 990U0 Je ITV 
"JI pJBAMO}) WIY MBIP 0} Pousos [OY Jey) ‘Joopdey ay) Aq ZurAeys 
uo poysisur ATuoqqms oy inq Aeme wy [nd 0} pom ous 
<jQWOD jaulo; 
jSSuIU} s[qissodut 1woy sAeMye NOA—ouUPSUI JOU 31,NOA JI JapuOM 
[J usyM ‘[noRY ‘sown oe Woy] “aIoy WOT AeMe O08 S39] ‘aUIOD 
{SUI B YONs NOA pjo} sARY P[Nnod oyAA jJeu) Aes },UpIp ],, 
<6204} UMOP SAT] 
oy os,, ‘Afyssey pres pue soXo oy} Ur IY4sTeNs Joy poyxoo] [nowy 


FAR VaddO AHL JO WOINVHd FHI 


May AIOAD Jay pulyog SuTyZOo, Jo uoNNedaid Joy sIdsap puy 
“JOYJOUL 0} 90J} SAISSBUT DUO WOIJ SUTUUNI ‘jSoIOJ & UT SOM 
Aoy) JI se wWeoq 0} Wesg Wo URI Ady) ‘ss0RIq pue ‘sIoyjeI ‘syns 
usemjeq poddiys Aoyy, “YOMIoqUIN Jo YUTIAQe, 94) UT ‘Joo 
ay) mojaq ysnf alam Adu} UOOS “Joy SuUIMOT[OJ AYNOWJIp pey oH 
‘ulese 
premdn wy Surpes, uedeq pue ,,jJoysiy [[NS “IoystH,, “pres 
‘wy wol7y Aeme pouim sug ‘poumjor Ajorxue Joy usy ng 
‘UOTOUIS ssuaIUT YM Woy) pozoonbs pue spuey sty Yoo) sys 
_ AWPU 0} JOADU WIOMS 9A,NOA DOUTS ‘SARZ] [J UST 
pue ‘poses oq T.MOA “nod IoF Suryoo] OWI0d },U0M oY AI0YM,, 
‘pres oy ,,‘pyjom oy} Jo wed uMouyuUN ue Ur NOA spry I[.I,, 
‘sloopdey oy) Wo Aeme Jey oq pynom 
Kay) aloya ‘3uIpIng oy) Jo syooT Joddn oy) pleMmo} wy poy sys 
se ‘JUOUIOSeINOoUS Ue SBA YOTYM ‘}qQnOp sty) passoidxo sys 
..21qissod J sy,, 
_ JSNUW NOX “WIY jnoge suru 
dojs ]], Nod puy j]]IM ] Jeoms | ‘tamod sry Jo yno nod dye} [],],, 
‘poXo-p]IM ‘UWIay) punose [Te pexoo] sys puy 
..g[noey Jood ‘nod preay oy 
JE EUAN [JeU} OFT] We} 7, WIsnul noX,, “‘poultepoxo sys , ,jJ9INd,,, 
‘QOI0A S$ ,URU 
3Y} JO JONAS OU} WIY Plo} oYs ssoyuN ‘pres oy ‘90g YON sy) 0} 
uoTIpedxe ay} UO OF JOU P[NOM o}{ :JOY MES OY SB UOOS Se Jnoge 
Jay plo} sy sUO OY} SuIpNpouT ‘Aressooou JI soIMseou oUONXO 
dye} 0} PoAfosal [noey yey) Iedsep Aq pouappel Os soo Joy pue 
gyed os 990ej Joy YIM ‘ajey AJOA POAle sys UOOUIOVe oUO ATTEUL] 
‘passed oul se Mois UOTEse s,oUNSHYD ‘s1oopden sy) Woy 
Aeme Jey ‘SUIppIng oy} Jo do} ou} 3e JSOW]E Ieyye VAC] snoLMNd pue 
Q)seyd Tey) uo potes Aoy} sAep SUIMOT[OJ dy} UT “on sem J] 
., Joopden sy) Wor AeMe 303 0} SN sJUeM PUB SaTquIaN sys 3nq,, 
‘yy3noy) oy ,.‘preyge JOU S,OYS SUITE[D OYS,, “SBA OYs Se yeom 
se SYM OY Joy OA “OWRYS WIM poysn{q pue poojsiopun sf] 
‘ayI] UI apqissod sAeMye SOM VU) SIoduep 
ou} IsuTeSe Joy pudjop 0} ISIJ Op] ApIOyIOIQ STY poyous[D Sulaey 
Jo} ‘uoTayye JO MoYs yey) Aq ‘WIY SUIPIeMAL IJajsIs & OAT] WY 
possty oyg “AypeATyo anny pue pfoq sty Jo YOM oy) SuIssesse oq 
0} poreodde sys pue ‘ont pue 93eM0d JO JOPUOM & dIOM 3Y JI 
SB “JUSUTYSIUO}SE UT UNTY Je payoo] syg *“AUWsUS porjIoodsun ouos 
pJeMo} oINjse3 SurUa}vaIp & opeul ay ‘ATTEUONUSVUTUN ysOUTTe ‘puy 


xnOda] 0405) SII 


“wry puryeq surusddey 
SUIUJAUL UL }SoJOJUI OU pkey oY ‘WIY Jo WO UI sUNSUYD WIM 
Joy ‘SuMpou Mes [NORY ‘prnoys MOpeYs ev UY} osIOU OUI OU 
SUTYeU pue ‘Joy WIM Ulese Zunes ‘Joy yIM Suiddojs ‘umo J3Oy 
OIOM HI JI SB IO SUTMOTJOJ MOPEYS B 99S OU PIP sys ‘syuOWIOU 


6IT VaddO AHL dO WOLNVHd 4HL 


OcT 


SpJOM asoy} ayods ays ‘ty JsUTeSe J[osIOYy Sutssosd A[SNOIOSIA 
_ jO8 ou ayou ysnut NOK ‘ABM OUI OL} 
0} NOA JOJ soUIOD OWT} oy) UDYM NOA WIM OF 0} OSNJoI J JI ng 
‘[Noey ‘sur SAvZ] [][,NOA Udy} pue,, ‘pres oUNSYD ,,‘pjjom oy) 
JO pud aU) 0} ‘spnojo oy} Ue} Joysvy pue JOYE] OF [[,9M UOOS,, 
‘uns ZuIJes 94} WOIJ poarooal ysnf 
pey Ady) soqos UosuILID pue plod oy) sure ‘Aq poyip A[TMoys 
spno[ “ZurusAo Jouruins yuerpes e Aq popunons oJom AY], 
“AWS SUIZeIQq 
B JO WeoYy sy) OJUT DIAT SNOIZIpoid sty poster ‘oIMsosd 9ZU0IG 
B WIM ‘oyM ‘oyody Jo uonsajo1d oy) Jopun ‘pojqnoyun ‘uMOp 
yes Ayjeuty Aoyj uoya aouasoid sj yOodsns jou pip ajdood sunod 
ayeunjJOFUN OM} dt} pue ‘sowop pue syuer} punore SuTAow Apusyis 
‘sJ90NS [JOU JO SUOTPOOSIOUI Je SSUIM Youyq JO syUSUIOAOUI 
WIM yNo Jas Zurojyans ‘Joos oy) uo Flos} Surusyey ‘wsy) Sut 
-MO][OJ} penuNnuod pue Wo} purYysq JNO SUIOD pey MOpPEYS oY], 
‘MHIMS 0} Poles] pue PoAIp JoTTeq ou) UT sAOg 
IMI] Jo soos ay) ‘syUOW JowUINs sy) SuLINp ‘YoIYM UI Jo}EM 
SS9TUONOU Jo syuE) uado 3Iq UI PoJooTJar oom sodeys UIM} IIOY], 
“SONUDSAR UO puke sjooNs dUIZ Suoye ‘yes sy) DAOgE YSTY ‘opts 
Aq opis poyyem Adu} pue Joy 0} WITY poyyed SYS “SOUApIJUOD YIM 
[Novy 3e poyoo] syS *MOTAq Jel JOQe] UI USES 9q P[NOd Jey) sLIeg 
jo Aayyea s[oyM oy) JOAO BuIpuRs ‘A[ds0p poyeosq sYg “WOt) 
aJ0joq a0eds Ajduro oy) pouuvos Aoy} ‘juoWNpod Je[nsueLn ou) 
puke SOWOp salt) oY) U99Mj}0q SUTYOO'T “MOT[VMS & SAI] ‘IeI[TUIEy 
pue 3YySI] ‘WI JoAO popls syg “Jool oy) poyoeol ATHL OS GNY 


ath] s,ojjody 


cL 


Joy SUTUIN) ‘poOWUTE}s SUS ,.jd[qQLIOY oq JsNUI yt * * I “WYSTAEp 
Ul WIY UdOS ISASU 9A,] ‘UNS OY} Je YOO] 0} OY] },UOp sprig ysiu 
pue ‘Surely st uns OU, “IYSI[Aep ul ‘are Usdo oy) UT ‘SAYS ON) UT 
‘outoy AUT UT ‘OWOY 1 31,94 “JOY JOSUeP OU UT OI,9M Ng [STU 
ay] Suljquiey sAemye oq 0},, “pres sys ,.‘d[qLIA} 00} S.)],, 
‘Joy posse oy ,,‘suIyJOU ‘ON,, => 
“SULIOWBYO SIOM 99) JOP 
"poyse ays ,.{SUIYJOWOS Ieay NOA piq,, 
‘Joy puryoq suO JoyJOUR Aq 
poraMsue SVM YSIS Joy JY) JOY 0} Poulos HI pue ‘poysiIs sys 
. jPUBISJOPUN },Uvd NOX,, Poppe oys puy ,,“Ulese Wy sAvoy JoAoU 
Aew | ‘OUIT) STY} WY 0} YOvQ OF | JI JeU) [90J J Osneoeg ‘[noey 
‘yey} OW ssTWOId JsnuI NOX ‘asnjol [ JI uoAS ‘ABME OU dye) 
I[ Nod pue soyy 9q [],9A4 “O¥PT 94? Aq WOOI ZuIUIp 9u) UT OUT Joy 
SUTTEM 9q UST) [[,9H “WYstuprur AMoexo ye—wool Sulssosp Aur ut 
OUI JOJ SUWIOD [| ,NOA JYSTUpMU iY O03 [[,oM UO) pue ‘oN Yse] DUO 
‘JY43IU MOLIOUIO} SUIS OU Jeoy WIY 107] °° * “[ENID 00} 3q pjnom 
WJ ‘MOU JOU,, ‘peoy Joy Suryeys AT[NJMOLOs ‘pres ays ..‘ON,, 
‘uty poddojs ays ing Aeme Joy peo] 0} poly oy 
<J08 $7] | MON 
jounsiyS ‘Aeme uns [],OA4 jSJeo) sty 99s uTese JoAoU [][,noz 
jnoA Seaoy sy NOA [][9} WIY Joy UTese JOAOU [][,NOX ‘ou ‘ON,, 
‘yeoy] SITY 0} Joy possed ‘itedsep snoiseu0s 
Joy Aq poddu3 ‘{noey ITY JUSUIO} UI spueYy Joy 3uNIM oYS 
,,jUlese ALOT] SIBd} 9SOU} 99S 0} Jvaq },ULd | [peoy-s weap 
3} JO SfOY YORI OM} OY} UT sed} DSO], j[NORY ‘sJes} asoy) ‘YO 
jdoom [[,9Y PUY jOUl SOAO[ SY SUI []9} [],dY puy ‘peoy-s.weop 
STY WIM ‘OU JO WON UI [OoUY ][[,9y pue ‘aWIOY puUNoIZIopun 
STY 0} ‘WI UA OW O¥R} [],9H “OOIOA SIY YIM OUI JOJ oUIOD 
11.94 ‘WY 0} SUIS } ,UOp | JI pue ‘Aep oJOUI sU0 ATUO dARY | :oWN 
SOUR S.J PUY j2[QUIOY 00} s.oy ynq ,‘yVeS OU} Jopun, SAT] OUM 
a[doed Joy Alios [20f prnoys aM MOU | jQJ0U Aue 3 pueys }.uRd 
I ng ‘uoddey Aeur sSump opqts1s) ‘wry 0} yoRq OF 3,U0p | Jq,, 
<cbOeqG O08 0} dAvy NOA op AUA,, 
;, punoigsopun 
WIY YIM OAT] pue yorq O3 0} plelje UW.] MON,, “UROW & YIM 
sue SIy Ul po[ppny pue poIealys oyg ,,jUOWIOp eB s.apy,, “ABM 
osuens & Ul peoy Joy Suryeys ‘pres sys ,,‘Mouy 1,UOp J,, 
. counsuyD ‘pur mod osueyo Aeur nod preye noX ary,, 
"9U0} Joy Aq ons sem 
OH ‘JlOsJoy ysurTese PodolIp 9q 0} POUlsEs Jey) SSOUTNJOdIOJ & YIM 


TCE VdaedO AHL dO WOLNVHd 4H 


JI OU ppor yy *AToyo~dui09 31 pojsny | pue SUIS) SSO]D AISA UO OIOM 
[ pue sd10A ou} ‘UO Udy) WOL “polp oY Joye our puss prnom 
ay pestuioid pey Joujey Aur suo oy) ‘10J SuTEM UsEq P.J SOIOA 

otjasue oy} sea AT[eOI II yeY)? PoJoMsUe SOIOA OY} pue ‘pIp J,, 
wy yse shee ued nod ‘AemAue 
‘aBuy oy) oq IsNUI 3], ‘pres ays pue JUOPIOUI s[quorfdxour oy) 
ynoge Joy po} | ‘yNeZ s snusyeA euepy Apyed sem I ‘JosuUY oy 
O} JI SULIATJO seM | BULAUIY) ‘9dI0A SULLA oY) 0} WI pasoyjo ATSATeU 
pue spuey oareu Au UT [NOS opi] JUS.OUUT Jey) Poy J “3 sof 
QUI OYeUI 0} ZUTYIOU PIP sNUZeA eUIeY WIM Sulog pue ‘ay07] 
MI] se [nos a[quns ‘Sutao] Jo pury owes oy) pey [[Ns | “ow 
JO UNJ SxVUI JO o[TUIs },UOM NOA aINS WJ ssned0q puR ‘AO 3]))T] 
B adam Nok Udy ‘pip | ow) oUeS OY} Je DISN] JO JosuYy oY) UI 
poasljaq nok pue ‘nok poyl] oy pue Joye; AU Mouy NOA osnes0q 

‘jnoey ‘SSoUYSIP[Iy Yons ynoge NOA 0} Ye} 0} presye jou UL], 
‘polp 94 se UOOS SB oUI puss 0} posTwWold 
pey Jawey rood Aur yey) .disnpy Jo josuy, oy) yNoge US}OSIOJ 
JOADU PJ L2{QIpaioUl Os ZuTJowWos uTe[dxs 0} [ se MOP ‘Josue 
UB JO SOIOA 9Y} SB [NJyNeDG sv se I JeY) IdddKO ‘ODIOA SUR 
[eos & ayI] suonsonb Au pasamsue i] ‘ou 0} poe} yng “sues ATUO 
JOU }I Udy], “Oplsul ZUISUTS UO JUOM FI PUR ‘IT OPISINO SdIOA 3p 
pulj },Upqnoo | “mouy nod se ‘poyejost st WoO. SuIssozp Aw ynq 
‘QOYMAIOAD POYOO] puke yNO JUSM J “WOO JoyJouR Wor, SuTWOS 
aq JSNUW JI Jey} ‘pip NOA se “WYsNoY) | ‘OW OpIsoq ssO]D ATSUTWIOOS 
‘90U0 38 [Je SUISUIS UISOQ SOIOA SNOpOATeU SI pseoy [ IUIy 

ISN] OL, “WY SUIZ0S NOY WY pIVsy P.J SYJUOU! VaIU} JO.7,, 

‘[hovy poyse ,.{dWIT} ISI} OU} JOJ UTY 99S NOA PIP MOH,, 
‘ulese UMOP Jes ADU], “JOOI [eJOUI SSUOUUT ot) 

uo sUOCTe alam Ady], “Way) puNole poxoo] pue dn poojs Aoyy, 
ce |: paeay nod jr ng °° * “sysIs sty Jo [[Ny are siea 

Aut ‘wry WIM JOU WJ UoyM UoAS osnedeq ‘Aes AT[BOI },UeD T,, 
..gJeey nok pig ‘poimfur useq s,oym 

guoswos agkeul,, ‘pres ay ,,‘ured UI soy SUOSUIOS Ss aId,, 
“ou 

OWS oY} Je pUNOIe pouIN) YIOg [NoeY pue sys ‘Joxe] JUOWOU V 

‘pazomsue sys ,.juiy uaas pj asnvoag {AUM,, 
<.Golp 0} 3uIOS sem oY 
yury) nod pip AyM,, “SUrze] sem UOIssayuod SurULTEye pue asuLIs 

Joy suo) oy) Aq pousjysuy A[nN mou ‘Tnowy poyse ..~AUAA,, 
..jaIp 0} SUIOS sem oy J4sNOW | 
* * WHY MBS | OWT) ISIJ Ot ‘YO,, ‘Nowy preMmo} sofa jYSNeNsIp 


XNOLF] U0ISV) ZZ1 


puy ,jsueg ozeure [],9M ‘90S [],NOA {jIeM JSNU NOX, ‘UI 0} pres 
II ‘POULM SOIOA 9} SUTYIAIOAD pIp [ ‘osueYyo Aue pddt}0U UO OU 
pue 010A Azeurpio AW YIM Sues | WOOT ZuIssoIp AW UT },USeM 
J UoYyM ‘UOSPOI SUOS IO “SdIOA 9Y} PUB ‘SNTIOTVA vue], ‘OU 0} 
A[UO UMOUY JO190S B SBA SsaIsOId AW ‘IepIo s.d01I0A ou) Aq,, 
‘OUI UO ploy & 193 },UpTNos 
[IASp 9y) yey) [IIS s[duIIs Be YONS seM JT MOUY os ples sys ‘ow 
painsseol snus A euUley Ng “} pulyaq AlJ9o10S Jo pury suWOs 9q 
JUSTUI DIO) prlesye sem | ‘OUIT) & JOJ ‘OUI poUaYSIJ UsAd I] {Sues 
J UoyM J[OSAU pozIUSOddI JosUO] OU | ‘SYIOM MIJ & JOV,, 
‘o1oy) AuoWwUeY poujeoiqg pue yynow Aw ur 
POAT] [NOS si] “SpuNos SuLIeOS ‘JUSDTJIUSeU S}I YIM UOSTUN UT OW 
ynd 3] ‘It preoy J USYM [OAS] S}I 0} SUI asTeI 0} AjT[IGe oy) peyY 3 
‘SUI Ul SJI][ SULI[Qns ‘SNnO1oeIOA ‘JUOpIe UR pouoyeme jt ‘uonendsut 
JO OIIJ poses oY) UI yey} [Te podojsaaus WI puy ‘9010A ouvIdos b UI 
SPUNOS }SOYD SUIdOTOADP JO JOID9S SY} SUI JYSNe}) DdIOA OU} ATUTEUT 
Ing ‘opny{duwe s[qissod ysoyeoIs spt Sumeosrq AU SAIS 0} poured] 
J ‘10J odoy oul 30] USAS SARY },UP_NOM ssouyeam jsed Au yey} 
JU9}X9 UL O} SDIOA AUT JO SUINJOA Oy) posvatour ATjenpesd |,, 
‘Auoueuttod wy} 
SUWIBDISAO SOIOA OU} ‘OWN WOYS & Joy Wey) JOAO payduiny pue 
s}[Ney QsoU) 3sUIeSe po[ssnys Joye APL ‘AWIE[O payor] JoysiBar 
O[PpIw sy pue ‘ysIey op] eB sem JajstsoI Joddn sy ‘pedojaaspun 
SEM ID}SISOI JOMO]T SP :Jo}OVIeYO YONU SARY },UPIp Sd10A AU JSIIJ 
ye pue ‘MouUy NOA se ‘oJedITAp Joye WJ jSUOTIpUCD yaraZjIp 
Jopun sesh UdJxe} DAVY PlNnoM yey) ssaJdoid snorsiposd opeur | 
‘SUIYV} MOU SBM | SOUO OY} WoY se [JOM se Wo Woy SuNnousg 
“suosso] sed Aur [Je pasoquisutoI—ootoa AW JoyjeI IJO—] ‘posn 
pey sy poyjour ofduis e yeyM pue ‘pop oy UsYyM ou BSuTyORA} 
peddojs pey soujey Au jutod yeym ye AToexea MOUY 0} poulses 
SOA SUL “oyBMd0e AT[NJIOpuoM se pUP [BAA OY) JO aprs JOO 
oY) WOT, SWIeD IJ “OUT 0} UMOTYUN sem yey} SISNUI Jo puly V,, 
..(uswTUeduIO.Ne MOA seM JEUAA,, ‘[NOVYy pres 
<i OM] CIaM AY] JeUM JO vapt Aue oAeY },URD |] ASINOD jo,, 
<< JIOSMOA IOA OY} preay 9A ,NOA 
ysnoy) woad ‘oyl] oom Ady} JeyM Jo vopr Aue savy },ued NOX 
{SUOSSIT SSO) INOGe NOA I[[9} [ UVD MOP, ‘poyesop sem viedo sy} 
Jo wed jeu} UOYM SUIT) Je WOOT SuIssoIp AU UT OUI ABS II SJUOW 
-yuiodde oy} }doy skemye | pue payuosuos Apiaseo | ‘Aep AIOAO 
SUOSSO] SUISUIS OW SAIS II JO, 0} OUI poyse I pue ‘ye [eUIA}O JO 
Aof suaidns oy} souctodxo our djoy 0} yyJed 0} UMOP sO peYy 


€cl VaadO SHI dO WOLNVHd HHI 


JOAOUDYM NOA WIT ABML POYOO] J USM ST ‘[noRY ‘Jey? puy,, 
“SAQ] AlTupEs [je Jo Aydulo sem 
yeoy Aur yey) pue ‘asjo SuryyAue oq JOAOU P[NOM NOA yey) ‘OUT 0} 
JayJoIg & ay] ATUO aJaM NOK xy} 9dIOA 9} 0} JIOMS J “UOTsonb 
oy} JO NO SEM SN UdOMJOG DSeLeUI Jeu} UROW sABM[e P[NOM 
uonisod yersos mod ‘uoddey 34st yeyM JoyeU OU puYy ‘ou 
POOqUISUIAI [JS NOA JI MOUY USAS } UpIp | ‘JosuLp ssojesn Moy} 
pozleor pue nod Joj ssurpooy AW Jo 3YsNOy} pj ‘sa1OULIEWpINA 
‘Qs[o SuryjAue Jo uey) ulese yt BulIeoy JOACU JO preyje sow 
SEM [ ‘Joyjey AW Jo JYsNOy 94} YM po[suTU ATOSO[D OS sem 
YOIyM ‘Sd1IOA 9Y} UT ‘UORIedde yeu} UT IpTey a}o[dWIOD peY [INS 
] Ng ‘sosuas popnyop Aw Aq postu ud0q P,]J 9ZITeoI 0} uNZaq pue 
sno1idsns suI090q A[ayeIPOUIUAT SABY PNoYs | JY} MOLOS uDUNY 
JO dU} B YONS UI yey) pres W puy “UsAvoYy 0} YOeq O39 0} oARY 
PInom ‘s01I0A, oy} “II ‘Yea UO SUOSUOS 0} yeoy AU SARS | JI 
yey) Ajureyd our pyo) 3] jATPes Os oul 0} poy[e} I ‘fnoey ‘YO “aroIp 
SEM DIOA SY], “WOOl Sulssorp AU 0} JUOM J UOYM [NYsnowW 
SEM J,, ‘UsIs dsop e WIM ponuuOd suNSYD ,,‘Aep IXOU OUL,, 
‘WOY} JOAO BUISO[D Aq WY} PoOYJOUIs SAY P[NOd I Jey} Way} 
0} JEdU OS BUTUIOD ‘JOOI SY} SSOIDe BUIAOU SBM SSUIM YouIQ Jos 
OM} JO MOpeYs oy) Woy} Woy Aeme sooed Moy & ATUO ZeUQ ‘asus 
JO ‘908 jou pIp Aoy) ‘ssuUI[I0J¥ IIo) UI poqlosqy ‘SULIe s_JoyjO 
youd Ul ‘jUOTIS poureutor AoYy} OUT] B JO} PUL SOY S.[NORY JsuTese 
peoy Joy pouea, syg “woys peddojs ounsiyg jurod sim 3Vv 
ce CNOA Paaoy 
J J¥y) ozI[eaI oul opeur ‘fnoRY “eu puY ,jsnojeof st sIOA oy 
9SINOD JO, ‘pres syg “SurypAIOAd Joy plo} [ “UTepdxo 0} oul poyse 
pue ‘sem | SB pous}ysUy se sem YS ,jYO!q sUIOD JOAOU [IM 
WI aqheyl jaUOd St DOIOA SUL, ‘ples pue snuojeA euIe] punos 
sure AW MOI} | “oye}S aJeIodsop & UI JYSIU Jey) OWIOY JOM T,, 
"* * ‘Moevy ‘pey i yy) poy 0} YstM | “JOAoIOy ABME OUOS SARY 
YSU WF yey) JYZNoy oy) ye polis) sem | “UIeA Ul “WI passaq | 
‘JOMSUL } UPIp IT {31 poyyeo | “SUIWJOU pres SdIOA oy) ‘poysiUly pey 
[ UOUAA ‘Weoy AUI UT pyey [[WS NoA sovjd oy) pue sn ynoge 7 [> 
0} JOU UOSBOI OU MBS | ‘SEM JT JYM OU poyse 1 UoyAA ‘pousddey 
pey Mou SUIWJOUIOS yey) SOR AU WOT] MBS WI puB ‘arIoyy Apeolye 
SEM SOIOA SY} ‘SN JO YIOq JOF ApOJeUNJIOJUL) ‘WOO SuIssoIp AW 
0} yorq JUOM | UOYM FH BuIpTy Jo 3YSnoy) ou pey pue ‘poAolsoao 
sem [ ‘[NoeY ‘YSU suo dOUdIpNe oY) UT NOA MES | UDdYL],, 
‘puBUIUIOD Ul 
SEM SOIOA SY} DIOYM WIP 91eIS9O JO PUTY & UI POAT] | ‘poyem | 


XNOdJT 07S) PTL 


OU SBA |] ING ‘Wooep JO OS aWIOS pojJoadsns savy pPrNoys | ‘alam 
SUIONUOD $.d01I0A 9U} JTeuosIod Moy Mes [ UY {ATO}OTdWIOD 
OS UI Udye} OQ J[OSAUW JQ] SAY | P[Nod MOY ‘[noey ‘soLeg 07 noA 
JYSNoIg yey} Joye] Oy) NOA 9}LIM 0} OUD [ MOY S,Jey) pUy,, 
SARIS SIU OpIsoqg ‘UTTOIA 
§ Jaujey INoA uO snuozvT fo uoysasinsay ayy Aejd [I,J wstuprwu 
Apoexo ye ‘dul 0} pol] 3,UdAey NOA JI ‘our JO AYVOM TINS o7,noA 
JI pue ‘ounsuyD ‘ore nod IJOAOIOYM UI] 9sned9q ‘00) SOLIOg 
Ul 2q [I,J ING, ‘Ppoomsue sd1I0A 9) ,‘aseofd NOA se oq, ,, 
oul 
YM 08 0} AUSeYD Op [NoeY MoIsuoJ] Yse ]],J “SAIS S JoyZey AW 
VSIA 0} SOLI9g 0} 3UIOS WJ MOWOWO], ‘pres |] ,jysnoug, ,, 
jABMB WITY puds }, UpTNom 
noX ‘UITY SAO] 3,UPIp NOA J] [WOO SuIssozp MOA UT OW puY UNY 
YIM oUOTe 9q 0} plese oq 1, UpjNOM NOA ‘UITY SAO] 1,UPIP NOA FT 
"pus Joyjo Aue YIM pynom nod se wry WIM spuey oyeys p,noA 
‘pusly pro ue A[durIs o1om oY J] “WY ploae },Upfnom Nod ‘wy 
SAO] 1,UpIp noA JT, ‘A[Lsue oul 0} pres W .jUNY Ac] NOZ, ,, 
‘OUI YIM SOUdDS 9] QIIIO} speu 
yi skep OM} JXOU OY} SuULING ‘snoyeof sem 7 pue ‘Nod poztUsosaI 
pey 3 “S010A OY} SATOOOP ued oUO OU Aja}eUNJOJUN 3ng,, 
"BOS OY} WO Jreos AU poavs p.noA 
yey) oul popuruer nod UsYyM poysne] | ‘NOA pozTUSodal | fi se joV 
0} JUBM } UpIp | Ulese pue ‘NoA JoJ presse sem | j[Noey ‘00} aay 
SEM SdIOA dU} ING “OU OpIsog oJOM NOA ‘uUIOy) pouedo | USy AA 
--s9ko AU pasopd pue,, ‘auNnsLys ples ..‘jurey yoy I,, 
..¢}dam nod o[IyM Buls noA pjnoo Moy 
nod wim dom | pue ‘sysoyo ofed MOA UMOP UNI sJe9} MPS T,, 
‘KIOUIOUI JEU) Je JSIOU aJaM SOAD SSOYM ‘[NORY pres , .jJYsIU yeu) 
Sues noA aj}0U AIOAO YA pooarnb yeoy Aw ‘ouTsYD ‘YOo,, 
. <Apog AW aT pey I IYSNoY} | JUOwWOW 
B JO} pue ‘oureyye sem [Nos AJ] “SSUIM USAIS u90q P.] JI SB IGT 
se SEM J ‘dJOJOq UMOUY JOAOU p.J UOMO ue YIM Sues [—sues 
J nq ‘Mouy 1,Uop |] {ua eIodQ sy) 0} SWIOD eYOTIeD },UpIpP 
AU ‘ooURULIOJIOd eles oY) JO JYSIU 9Y} sem JYSIU jeUL,, 
[OISNUE S,UdAROY JO IPI] B SsUINg UBUNY SAIS URS NOA 
:OBEC] SUTISUIYD ‘MOU OD, ‘OUI 0} ples dd1I0A ou) ABp 9UKQ ‘puNos 
jo Ayneaq oy) Aq possessod os ussq | prey aOjaq IOADNY “oINjdel 
QUIAIP Ur Aq JUOM DdIOA 9) YM suOssat JO snoy Au ‘ory 
-uvoJy ‘NOA 998 USAD JO ‘NOA 9ZTUZOSEI 0} WI99s },UpIp J AYM 
S11 ‘s[[ey su) UI JO o8e}s Sy) UO UOTUSyHe AW Yo}ed 0} por nok 


Scr VdadadO FHI dO WOLNVHd 4HL 


A]JeUuly DIOA OU} PUL UTTOIA SIQISTAUT OU) WOIZ OUTeD aI] Jo AIO 
yueyduinriy ‘tnyAof oy} Us], “‘pIeASARIS OY} UT WYSIU yey) sn poyea 
-ydeo pue ‘fnoery ‘solisg JO Speol oy} UO punogy[eds sn poy 0} 
pasn jeu} afAjs oures oy} ‘surAeyd Jo o[A}S SY POZTUSODDI | “UTTOTA 
S$ Joyjey AU JO sajou saTjuTeyd oy) preoy | “uTese Aep jo jYSIT om) 
aes pur soAo siy uodo 0} suIsoq OY ‘ADIOA S,snsof Jo punos ou) 
ye ‘USYM ULOU S.SMIZL’] SEM J] “[[OM MOUY | Jey) ULOW SULTS 
-[nos ‘suo, & pieoy | ATUOppns ynq ‘JaMsue OU SEM dIDU],, 

"OAT[E [JS SVM I JI OUI 0} UMOUY VoUSAId S}I YU 0} BDIOA SU} 
possoq ‘sofo AU UT SIeo} YM ‘puke WOOT SuIssomp AUT 0} polly 
J ‘a0y} ou aIsseor ApypoInb pynom pue wool 3uIssayp Aur Ut 
oq Apealye JSnu #1 ‘39010A ou) 0} pousddey pey SurjoU JI yeU) OU 
0} powinsso0 I UST) Ing ‘pamfur pue peop ou) SuOW ad1I0A ou} 
JO} YOO] 0} WNLOUPNe oy) OJUT UNI 0} JNOGe SBM | Je} USYOLNs 
-ouvd os pue ‘uoy) o3e}S OU} UO SEM J] ,j9dIOA oy) poysnso 
savy ABU JoIspueYyd sY, jPOH AJA, ‘J[OSAU 0} pres | “3utAp jo 
ajqedeo ‘uosiod Surat] Ayeulpso uv a1oM JI JI se ‘preaye Aypeor ‘sok 
‘WI JO} prelje sem | pue soUeULIOJIad oy) pusye pyNnomM 7 su pPjo} 
pey i ‘dd10A 9U} JOY SY “JOSuep OU UI 319M NOA MoUyY | pue xoq 
S$ JoyjoIq MOA UI NOA WdOS P,] DUIS ‘pouIIDUOD aJOM NOA se Iey 
se posnssval A[aJeIPOWIUT seat | “Weoy Au Jo soayey Jenbs om} sy) 
O19M NOA JO OM} OU) SUIT} VU) Je asNBdAq ‘AIO A dy} pue No WIO0G 
JO} sem ‘[NORY ‘YONNS Jojsesip oy} usyM IYsNoy} ysNy AW,, 

"suIBoIOS SUIPUdTTeOY 
WIM polly sem wNEopne spoym oy) pue “WYysTU yey) pomfur 
pure por som ojdood—ssouyzep ojul posunjd sem asnoy ay) 
pue UMOP SUTYSeIO oWed JoITopueYS oy} Udy YSU oy) ‘YysreUr 
B Ul OJ] Joy pye yuods p.oys JI se Suryeois uesoq pure ‘aseysuo 
peo} SNOOpIY & OJUT POULIN) Ud9q P, SYS JU) ]9J SAVY JSNW eYOTIE> 
UdYyM YSU oy) “WYsTU [NJoyey uO ‘WYSTU DUC jow Ajd ‘jnory 
‘our Ajid ‘yes 0} yORq SUIOD pue UdAPOY SALDT 0} JNOGP O1,dM 
yey} MOU puy °° © ‘SuIyJOU NOA po} 9A] jIOIND [IMD j WINN oy) 
yno puNoj | TH ow JOJ UIS9q },UpIp sIeunYSIU sy], jpuRsIopun 
},U0p NOX Laeunystu yey? JO NO JoH {Novy ‘WINH oy],, 

. GAJeIPOUIU sIeUNYSIU s_qeuIWOge yey} JO 3nO 108 NOA },upIp 
AUAA,, ‘pulur poyeonstydosun Uv JO 9DUDDOUUT SAISS9OXO 94} JOAO 
SUIMOLIOS A][NJIe9} 9q 0} poulses ays sI0yM AIO}S JOY UT yUIOd 
SIU} J@ poulTejOXxe [NoeYy ,.jyIny oy} NO puNo; UOOs NOA jNg,, 

¢ (OUl STP P[TYS & SATOOOP 
Ajiseo p[noo yt ‘yesodsip sj ye pey WW suRoU Oy) WIM puy ‘oul 
JO JOIUOS [IO] Pe 9dIOA St) :J[OSAW JO} YUTYY 0} JI[QR JOSUOT 


XNOLI] U0JSV®) 921 


B® UO SUOYS MOU ‘IOO[J oY) UO ‘UIJOJURT popeYys ev Jey) Jdooxo 
‘ssouyJep Ul [DS arom J pue yoeTq UI UeU Ou) ‘UTese soXfo AU 
pousdo | UsyAA ‘SNoTdsuooUN seM J] BUC, MOY MOUY 1,UOp ]J,, 
“pojutey | jWeop Jo poyjouwss yf pue—ysoyy Aur uo 
‘sdiy AU UO 3f9J | Jey) pueY e& ‘3 paso[D pueY ve ynq ‘seay AUT JNO 
AID 0} pousdo yynow Aw pue pouayyns sZa_ pue sume Aur :yoyJo 
JSB] SUC SPeU | “OVJ O[OYM SITY ply yey} Yseul ve pUe YyeOoTD youtq 
3Iq & SULIEOM UU B Aq Pay SUING: SBM | WVU} MBS | ‘II 0} DSOTO 
OWeD OM USYAA “MOIS Pol d]}II] 94) PIeMO} PoLEd sem |,, 
"IOIIO} JO SIP 0} SUIOS alom | JI se SuIpooy 
‘sulaow poaddojs [ usy], “Woy? OVO poy 0} s]qQeUN ‘souUO}s 
durep 10A0 poddyjs sia8uty AJ “JOLIO ur po[s3nys | syuowOUW 
MO} B JO ‘punoss oy) JJO poy] sea | pue ystem Aur pouosudurt 
ULIe UY ‘pouleolos | UTeSe DUG ‘APU 3 pyoy pue stm AU IOAO 
pasos ‘Auog pue poo ZUII}OUIOS Jay)eI Jo ‘puey ev ‘ssouyIep oI) 
ul ‘90U0 38 [TV ‘poddo}s pey UI[OIA oy) pue SUIZUIS oy) OsSNeDEq 
‘pxeoy J punos ATUO 94} sem ddI0A UMO AJ ‘UTeSe pouwealos 
I ‘Passoid syfey OM} SIOYM [eM eB JO IOUION B Pays] Mors 
pol WIp & ‘S0UR)SIP oO) UT “yep sem ou puNore SumpjAIOAT,, 
‘poulvolos | pue 
preye sem | ‘][ey yep & Ul sem | ‘oU0S aIOM WOO! ZuIssoIp AW 
pure i Inq ‘sul pUTYyaq I JO} poyxoo] | pue i ses },upIp | ATUoppns 
ust} ‘JOLT AUT JO UOJ UT sem J Je} St NOK [[O} We | [TV ‘},ued | 
ynq “3 ureydxo ued nod ogAeul ‘}Y8IU sUO WOOI SuIssop AU WO 
Jeoddesip oul Mes nod s0uIg ‘pousddey 31 Moy SUIMOUYy ynowIM 
WIOOI SUISSaIp AUI OpIsyno JjosAW puNoj | ‘Surwesip 1,usem ],, 
..j2UTWMeoIp dojs 0) AQ JsnUI NOX jsUsIIYD ‘ounsYyD 
{Moy SUIMOUY yNoIpIA,, “Ajonbsniq poydnuajur fnoey {Jeu A,, 
ce |) «pue ‘OJ04) 9q 0} OUIOD p.J MOY BuIMOUY woyIM ‘uUIOOI 
Suissaip AU opisjno JjasAus puNoj J 9douUO 3e [fe Udy], ‘ou Jo yuo 
UI JOLIN oy) pey J—SsSINOD Jo ‘jdOTJo JOINT e Udeq SARL JSNUW 
WY ‘poyem | se JOSUO] pue Iosuo] MOIS 0} pauses Wool Zutssorp 
Aut ‘yuourozeure Aur 0} ‘pue owes [°° * ‘awed | ‘II UT paadljaq 
[ ,joW Ul SASTIOq pue ‘oWOD, “I pomoT[oy [ pue Aeme poaoul 
WW premo, yem 0} ‘dn puvys 0} ‘aWI0D 0} oI SuIpURUTOD 
osje Sem I yey) Woy J “SuIAp oom Jolfopueyo uayey ou} Aq 
poysnio o[dood ‘Joor sures ay} Jopun ‘Udy SUIT) & Je SFI] TeUIO}O 
Jo Sues }I sev OWI UO pey SISNUI Jey) JOaJJo Oy) NOA [][9} 3,Ued T,, 
SIP JOUULD OUI UT PoAdI[ag SAPY OYM ISOU] [ITEM 
"UTBS SATT [[IM UL UI SASI[9q OYM SOU], [OUI UI SASTTOq pue 
‘au07), ‘Splom JUReUTWOp ‘ouloldns oy} SuIZUIS ‘presy Jjos} opeur 


LCL VdaddO FHL dO WOLNVHd dHL 


"SOOBWINJ T9y) JO syjNoW 
por oy} 3uruedo Ajuoppns Aq nod usjeary} Adu) WOU} 0} OSOTD 
WIOd NOA JI pue ‘Woy} IYSI] pue ‘sony dn Ns pue ‘syJoyyoud pue 
SJOAOYS YM YOM AO], “O19N} UMOP SIOTIOG JO JUOIJ UI sUOWOp 
yoryq ore aloyy, “Abe UNI ou opeu! pey poreodde yey) somsty ou} 
ynq ‘UMO} B PfOY 0} Ysnous BIq ‘ou MOTAQ STOAD] BIOUI OM} USCS 
P.J ‘Joys Aue 08 0} prewye ‘foAoy] pay) oy} ye poddojs p,j pue 
SIV][9D SNOIZIpold aso} 0JUT UMOP OU p,] ‘90U0 ATUO ‘90U0,, 
‘QSUOWUWUI SI ed punoiZIapun ssoym ‘SUT 
-P]ing oy) punore [ye JuOM PI Jeu) poulseuN | pue AJoTes JepNONS 
MOIIU B UI BIOM OM Jey) pospnl | ‘sureoys Jouiq Aq aloy) pue 
Q1d] USYOIQ SEM FI PUB SSOUYIEp ay) 0} posn Surwodsaq alem soAo 
AW ‘Ssasues AU JO puRUIWIOS ][NJ pey 7 Ysnoy) ‘uoNod jo Yos 
OWIOS JO JOUONIJUT 9Yy} JOpUN oq JSNUI | Jeu) YUIY) OW SpeUl 9] 
] d0ved IOUT OU, “WIY Wor odeosa 0} AQ },UpIp | pue oul ploy 
yovyq Ul URW OU], ‘AW UI posnose peYy ainjuoApe YsI{[oy AW yeu) 
JOLI9} pue Ajorxue sy} poovjdor Ayjenpess Jod10) osuens y “JUoUI 
-SAOU & SUTYSU NOWIM ‘YOR SITY UO poled oq J[asAW 39] I,, 
<. Maydosd a] WO Is1OYy oY 9y} UO S19M NOA oTYM 
noA 0} pouseddey yeymM ou [][9} INg,, ‘_poJomsue [NORY ,,‘SOZ,, 
.Gnod },UdaRy ‘jsoys vIedQ ou) JO pIvoy 9A NOX joures 
OU} SIOM JSOYS OU} pUe SdIOA UY) Je) POUISeUWIT SAvY JOACU plnom 
[ asnesaq ‘aul day 0} dd1I0A 3y} UO paleo Aypremut | “Iouostd 
sly sem J JI pasjopuom pue poloppnys [| MOU ynq ‘}soYys stp 
Ul POAdIJOq JOAOU PJ {OdIOA 94) UI PoAdI[oq J “ysOYs eIsdO oy) 
Aq Ue]o}s useq pue pareoddesip p,oy yey} oSe}SyoRQ JOWINI ve sem 
a1} WSU sU_ ‘solovoljop wiry Surpooz Aq wy Jodured 0} posn | 
‘aaydosd aT WOI dSIOY ITAA dU} ‘IeS9D pozZIUSOdeI p.J “o[ppes 
3} OJUO SUI pol] UPUT OY], ‘pooAINb osioy ou], ,jJesgO, “pomul 
-InwW [| pue Zurysiou tnyAof e mwsy 0} popeys sem J ‘URUT OU) 
jo odeys youyq ou} opisoq odeys oyyM & Mes ATONSeA | SsouyIEp 
ay) ul pue soey Au JoAO possed yjeaiq uLeM be Ajuoppns,, 
‘YSIS B SEM JoMsUe ATUO STH ,{2d10A, OU) S,c704 AA {NOA 
are ouM, ‘Apyeom poyse pue Aeme way} ysnd 0} }duwoye s[qQo0J B 
Qpeul | ‘Weep jo pojjowrs [Jus Asy yng ‘APYst] ou poyono} spuey 
SIH] ‘ABME OUI poles oy Udy UMOYS pey oy AjyeyNIG oY} Ue) 
JeIq 0} S[QGUIOY SIOUI SUI 0} PoUEs JEU} SSoUDTJUSS puke oIvd AN 
-uaye ue YIM sofdura) Aut uO JoyeM JOOS suIInd sem oY “Yseul 
pue Yeo]d yor]q st} Ul UeUT Oy) JO DOUy OY} UO SUIJSOI sem pLoy 
AW ‘SutsT sem J YOM UO JOOT oy) Jopun poseoddesip pue jem 
ay] UMOP poysetds JqIeM SIT [TEM B OPT JOS UTeJUNOJ SuTysNs 


XNOAFT UOqSDS) S71 


sy, ‘dojs eB 0} sue pue pIeY SUIJOWOS OUT poduINq Jeoq sy) 
Ayjeuty ‘urese ssouyrep [e10) UI oJOM OM Udy) pue ‘jnoge NOA PIO} 
] MO[3 YsIn{q ou} Ul SuOTe poplys oA ‘pUNos OU speU sn pUNOIe 
JOM SY], ‘AW UO stidnd ssoyuoHOU! Itsy) Jo YSTIOM SY} OF [ pue 
OU Yo_ IoAoU soko sTY “YSeW SITY UT sojOoYy 94} YsnoI} SUTyOO'T] 
‘Ay[nyjIamod pue jsey Surmol ueSeq pue ‘sieo oy} YOO) ‘Su 
UOI! SU} WOIJ 3 pousjseyun ‘yeoq ay) OUT peduinf uew oYL,, 
‘asvoreys B Jo sdays oy} uo Suldure}s A[pno] soaocoy sty preoy pue 
Azayye3 ay) Jo ssouysJep oy) OJUT YsTURA Iesg_ Mes | “AvMe Jesg_ 
puss 0} aInjsos yornb Be apeul ay osnedeq ‘JI pooNou savy ySNUI 
uotuedwios wus AJ “SUTUINJOI sem JO1I9} AUT Jey) pomoys YOryM 
SJUSUISAOU! MO B OpeU J ‘ouOs AjJeou sem JOdI0} AW ‘ose 
Aue Ul {aU SATAQI 0} YSNoua useq pey sdvjd ey} JO ssoUTOOd 
au) ogAeuUl JO ‘Jjo UIOM pey UoTOd oY) Jo s}OOJJo OY} OqARTA] “JHOG 
OU} OJUT SUI Pa}I] OYA ULUI OY) UY) JUOTIS SIOUI JO IOMUOO[S Us0q 
SABY },UP[NOD uoIeYD pue ‘xA}¢ IOAN Oy) 0} UTR Ay) UOYyM 
AJOIXUL SIOUI IO} DALY 3,UP[NOD peop oY} JO S[Nos SY] {SOS Jey) 
0} OUIBD | USYM UT SEM J UONENIIS ONsPJUPJ OU) JO YuIy) Inq ‘7 
UO SuUTeOTy Jeo & YIM SYP] puNoAsIJopun yey) Jo WSIS sy Jnoge 
Jeimeusodns Sumpou sem osu) pue ‘pojstxo Jey) [fe Moy J,, 
“prey 
B UO SUL UON Ue 0} por) JeOg APT B MBS J PUL aIOYS Oy) PowysT] 
MOS dy) ING ‘soUeISIP OU} UI SSOUyJep oy) WIM posiow Joye 
Avi Sl] ‘O¥e] & JO DOYS SY} UO 319M 3M Jey} MES PUL POYOO] | 
‘MO[S YsIniq & Aq popunogins sJoM 3A ‘poudjysiqg pey YsIU oY], 
‘poddojs oy uoy) pue ie durep 393 | ‘opty Booed sry pousyornb 
pue ‘JUSUIOU B JO} We Oy) pojylus ‘s[lsoU SIy postel Jesgd,, 
“pron 
AJQIpoioul sem J ‘ON ‘JeY) SAdIT9Q 1,UOp | 3nq ‘SuruuIds sem 
peoy Aw asnedeq os JYyS3nou} | oqAeJA “YS OY) JO sundap ysoupIE] 
au) premo} [elds o[qIxo]jul ue Ul UMOp BuUIOS ‘punole pue punose 
SUT[OO SOM OM JEU} sem JYSNOY} ATUO A ‘poyse] ssouyJep OFUT 
Aoumof yey) 3uo, Moy Ajoyeutxoidde use noA [[9} },Up{Nod T,, 
‘pajoojoins pue popinsun ‘Suryyem uo WIM Iesga 
pue oWl SUIPjOy [NS sem ue oY, ‘poos Joj poreoddesip Aow) 
Ayyeut,j “SUTMOT[OJ DIOM 9M BSINOD dU} JO SUN} PUB S}SIM) 3U} UO SUT 
-puadap ‘poreoddeal pue ‘poreoddesip ‘pareodde Asyy, ‘odoosaya} 
@ JO pud SuOIM OU} YSnoIy) Woy] BuIsOs sIOM | JI se “[TeUIS 
AIOA BUTYOOT ‘SAdeUINJ toy} JO SoMj pol ou} JO JUOIJ UI sUOWOp 
YoRTq a} MBS J] SOULISIP oy) UI Jjo Jey ‘ssouyep ysueUNnYsIu 
yey Ysnory yorq sty uo oul pattie ATUTeS Ies9D sIIYAA,, 


6c1 VaddO AHL dO WOLNVHd 4H 


B OXI] WIOOI SUIMPIP Jey} Ul posopous oq 0) OUI poy, pey AuNsSap 
[eoruuelAy A[pjoo ‘yep yy JO ‘aur 0} uoddey prnom yeym Jopuom 
1UpIp J ‘UI sem J UOHeNjs s[QLoY sy) JO UI) 1,UpIp J,, 
jUDUL D :dW JO WOI, 
Ul }[9UY MOU JEU SBA ‘OUI WOI I OpIy 0} [Qe Ud9q } ,UpeY Jey) 
YSU SY} PUIYSG pozIUsOdOI peY | 9dIOA dU} ‘SOIOA OU} PUv,, 
"SJOQTVIP [Je UI JoUJO YORd PdaoT puv ‘sosensury 
[fe ul Sues ‘pourayos ajdoed azoyM Jaqeg JO IoMO], Wapouw yey} 
JO sone oY) Ul JayJoYsS JUSUPUIEOd puNo] pey ‘UOneNsSIUTUIpe oI) 
Jo Aytorduros jusTIs ay) YIM pue ‘poou Jo 3no ‘sJoyjo se ysnl ‘sseT 
-[99 dU} UI SUTATT UNSOq MOYOUIOS pey OYM SLUSDI YsIpuLyNO 
ue YM sulfeop Ajqeqoid sem |] jeu} poploop [ ‘eIedg oy) jo 
SIVT[OD DY} Ul SUING JOU JO OsNdxd dy} peY ysvoy Je YOrYM ‘sJoY}O 
AUBUI se ddv[dUOUIUIOS se WOO! SUIMBIP & JO S}TWIT oy) UII)IM 
uoneuiseut AU posojous A[qe}yIAoUI—jso9 pey Adu} Yonu Moy 
pue ‘sjoyseq popyis 19y} UT ‘Woy sWIOD pey Adu} dIOyM pres sary 
JSOW]E P[NOD J—SIOMOT] OY} UDAD pue ‘SdSBA 9Y} ‘SYSoTpUeD dt} 
‘AMJUINJ oy) ‘syT[eM 34) UO soLNsode} oy, “YONo) pue 99s p[nos 
] ey) ssuIy ATye Aq popunoums Mou sem aINjUeApe AUL ‘UIZOS 
WSU W ATeUIPIORXS MOY JoyeUI ON *AITBOI S,dJT] JO ssouaTeEme 
AUL UleZO1 OUI opeul 74ST] oy) ‘au puNose ssuIt) oy) [|e ou 
surmoys A[Jeajo Ag ‘a8einoo Aud JO oWIOS yorq ow aAed A}ITTWINY 
SI] ‘Mow Surjou pres pue oul Jo yuo Ul youy sy UdU,, 
<jyseur Aur yono} 1,uop noX jr Josuep ou 
UI 31.NOX, ‘ples pue ‘eyo & OUI ou poysnd ‘s}suM Au peddus 
ApUoS dF 99BJ S.ddIOA SY} 99S ppnod | Os ‘Jjo W [Nd 0} pom 
pue Seu SI JO} poyoval [ ‘snowy pue popunojsquinp sem T,, 
(AF10A IYi SOM I],, 
, Josuep 
OU UT 31,.noA, ‘ples oy ,‘oUTSIYD ‘preye oq },u0q, :ayods oy 
Puy *Pop[o} swe si] YAM poo}s Yoe]|q UI URL poyYseU ay} ‘sIOMOTT 
uvisieg A]jeoidA} ssoy} Jo Jspru oy) Uy “soURWMIOJIOd Surusdo ue 
Joye WOO SUIssoIp AU UI punoy sABMIe J SOUO OY} d¥I] SIOMOTT 
POZI[IAIOIOAO o1aM Ady} ‘spreastnog oy} UO sdoys UI pjos puTy ou} 
JO sjoyseq 0} por) azoM AdY} YOIYA YIM sUOgQ!I YIS 94) JO osned 
-0q PINsqe podyoo] Jey) sIOMOTZ JUDSTFIUseUT YIM ATUO poysTUINy 
pue poyelosop oq 0} powis0s 3] “WOO 3UIMeIP eB JO _s9[pprm 
dU} UI SBM | ‘pouINjol pey yWuaNs Aw [Ty "a5 Au 0} JdeQz T,, 
"WYST] WstIqQ A[SuI[Zzep UI UMOp our ynd peYy UeUT oy) ‘soA —IY3I] 
oy} Aq pozep ‘poddojs . uo) Ing ‘pip | pue ‘uTese wreolds 0} 
yisuans AU JO Ysnoud paloAodal p,j Mou Ag ‘dn ow payord uew 


XNOAFT U04SV5) O€L 


“A[dulis pres ays ..‘ON,, 
<-,<G00} WY aJey NOA OG ‘AIO}S B[QIPSIOUT ze} JO Sar ON 
0} AJWTED SIOU! Ud}ST] UBD | JEU) OS SY} OUT ][9} 0} NOA pooU T° °° 
OUI [Jo} “OUNSEYD ‘nod puy,, ‘[hoeY PoLtd , jWITY o3eY | ‘YO,, 
., OSnoy sy oT | Mou 
MOUY NoA Udy Jey) pUeIsIapUN ]].NOX °o} pey |] ssneoog,, 
«Gully 0} yoeq o8 nod 
pip ‘wy wo Aeme uns savy prnod nod souls ‘AyM Ud ],, 
, jw Wo Aeme 
unl AJUO ued NOX “YU ysurese suop oq ued BupoU ‘ON,, 
‘peoy Joy yooys sunsiyD 
. JZOMSUB 0} WI S010 UDA 
pue Wry 0} yye} 0} sIqissod $31 ‘Jsoys B OU S,dY VdUTS ‘qISy) UY 
0} O08 pue SOAT] SY DIOYM JdRId OY} pUTJ 0} TQISsOd s.3I 3Ng,, 
. jJOpINUI USdAd JOU ‘SuTyVOU ye dos WITY ayeUT 0} YSNoua ‘sox,, 
«.GnOA SoAo] ATjeor oy Uat],, 
<¢ SM [PJ [Toy yey} souKYO & S.oJ0) asNedeq 
‘yoJeUI USAD Ue S.jI JSBO] Je ING,, ‘9dIOA poyynu e UI poppe 
oys ,,WIY [Py [tM odeoso Awl ans wi] :noey ‘WSU aI.noxX,, 
,, ured Aue wry 
SUIAIS INOYWM IJOAIOJ WY WOI sdeoso 0} prey 9q [IM JI,, 
,, ured years 
WIY SAIS [IIA IT “IYSTU MOLIOUIO) SUIS OUI IeaY },USSOp YA JI,, 
{MOU JYSU ABME UNI 0} JYZNO OM JEU} “JYSTU MOLIOUIO) [JD TEM 
0} SUOIM 31,9M YY) SUT ST]? SUIWJaWIOS joUNsLIYD joUNsUYD,, 
;, UOTSIdsns sIy dsnore },UjJSNU 9K 
‘AIZUe WIY SYCUL 0} WIN OU ST SITY, ‘eIOdG dy} Woy AeMeE NOA 
99S 0} POMOT[e JOU WJ PUY “Woy WOIJ pjyJoM ay} JO pus IoWjO 
oY} 38 319M SIOYy pue ‘sIoopdey yng way 0} SuIjou savy 9A\,, 
., NOA Joy AT[TYS 00) 9q AvuU yySIu oy) preye wy Gosoy AUAA,, 
,, a4ay SUIMAIOAS NOK [][O} 0} JURA J,, ‘pres ays ,,‘AeIS,, 
“ypeq 
wy ppoy sys jnq ‘dn puejs 0) YSnoy) se JUSWIOAOUI B ape [NOLY 
‘UsT[ey pey JY4SIU yey) MES pUe pUNOIe payoo, Asyy, {Oye UA, 
<. IU,, ‘poyeodos pey woy) puryoq oyde ue yey) [NOVY pue Joy 0} 
pouress 3] ‘poydnuajur urese sem AIO}s Ss oUTSTIYZ JuIOd sty) IV 
«ce o AU Wy ‘ysoys e Jo ‘junds e ‘jasue 
ue }0U WJ :oUnSTIyD ‘ony s.jJ, ‘pres oy osneoeq ‘sieo} AU JOj 
UOSESI SY} pOo}sJopuN AMUSpIAS ‘soouy sm uO TNs ‘ueUT oU],, 
‘SutAIO uvSaq | PUL .jUCUL & <ST SOIOA OY) JEYM SI SIU], 
*J{OSAW 0} pres | ‘ON “WoreY & UT [JIS SARIS B JO [][99 B UI JoUOSTId 


TEL VaadO AHL JO WOLNVHd JHL 


‘ssijq ‘iredsop ‘wopiAyreu ‘Aol ‘Moos OUT OU YOO) IJ [YOU 
Ss. snoydiQ 0} pasuojeq | ‘AouInof snoruouney sj uo ‘pomjderus 
‘JI POMOT[OJ J PUL UlTeSe ajJI] 0} DWOD peYy SdIOA SUL, “UdHOSIOJ 
SEM DINUSAPe oeZIQ AP “Wey 94) 0} JYSTeENs O38 Yorum ‘spunos 
S}t }da0xo p]JOM opis}no oy) UT SuUTWVAIDAD YsI[Oge 0} JoMOod 
oy} sey SISNJA, ‘poweyse [ooJ ow opew jjosAW }I Suns SulAey jo 
Arourowl AJ ‘OU 0} SUOS SAO] S ,PUOWOpPsag SUISUIS URS9qQ ‘9DIOA 
§ Josue oy) ‘dd10A S,UeUI oy) ‘oy pue ‘dey e YOO) oF “SUTUDAD 
oY) JO sol oY} JOJ JOWJO YORd 0} IOW SUIyJOU pres 3M,, 
“poAvjs 
[ pue © °° poudjsi] | puy jsues oy osneseq ‘9010A oY) [TNS sem 
ay ‘jsoys e Jo ‘yds e ‘jasue Ue },USeEM 94 YSNoUIe yey) ozITeal 
0] pey J Uoy) pue ‘003 dn poojs oy nq °° * Ing ‘ed snoLo}sAWI 
ay} OU MOYS 0} SUTTTIM sem oY pue ‘poseafd | JOAQUOYA OS prNod 
[ :9Ud 0} 1 JoJJO WY Jesy 0} pozeurE sem | ‘OUI Woy Use) pey oy 
WOpsal dy} Yoeq UI SAIS ApOJeIPOUIUT },UpIP oy JI wy osidsop 
A[Uo plnoo | yy} WY plo} pue dn poojs |. usyM. puy jjdom 
ay ‘poueoul ay ‘oUI aJojoq pasULIo oy ‘ou payoadsaz oy nq ‘sAO| 
jo 3no OW poyonpqe peYy oH ‘Joy AU Je SAC] Isey ‘osuOWUN 
ue pre] OH [Sul psao] oy ples off “Wooop SIY poyrupe off [Wry 
DAIZIOJ 0} BUI pasdoq oY ‘J[OSUTY posmMd sy ‘J[aSUITY posndoe 
OH ‘aye] oy) Aq osnoy puNoAsIopun oy} UT ‘SUI JO JOT UT SuTpIOUY 
‘sem oO SB WY oUIseW] Z[noeYy ‘UY sey [| Pynod MOY “WIY 
91ey },UOp | IN sw soTzOY oY,, ‘AJISUSIUT SUIMOIS YIM UO USM 
OYS , 231 JO JSIOM dy) SJVUL,, “WSU sy) JO YSIS sy) nO pouMOIpP 
I yey) ATPNoy os pJom sy) oyods ays pue ‘pres sys , jJOLIOY,, 
<, UY 
ajey }.uop no outs ‘wy Joy oaeYy NoA BUITIEJ JeYM MOUY O} 
OMT P.J,, ‘ATMOS pres Ayjeuyy [noey ,.‘NoA Jamsue | dojog,, 
‘WIDY) PUIYaG SuTUS}sI] MOpeYs Oy) pue BUTTE) USSq pey oy 
OM} 9Y) :WSY) JO IOI} Sy) Suowe soUDTIS 9sUa} B SEM SIO 
«<b{OBq SWIOD IOAoU 
II] ‘ulese oso) 03 | JI Jey) NOA pjo) Apeolye 9A J :[noey ‘[nzores 
og,, “A[ysiey poyse ays ,.{oJ0u) yorq O38 0} SUI JURM NOA 0q,, 
‘Ay[NJUIOS poysnry] sy puy 
, jooeyed 
punosZJopun ue UI SOAT]T OYM ULUT P—OUISeUT ysN¢ “jt JO YUIIp 
nok usyM nod sip yey) pury oup,, ‘AjI9yIq poureydxa [noey 
. J[@snoA 0} WuUpe },UOp NoA puUrTy SY] jpury suNoxa ysou 
OY) JO ‘SAT [VS St yey) [[e—AOI9} INOA ‘Tey INOA pue ‘UITY SAOT 
A[SNOIAGO NOX {SpJOM asoy} [Te poysem Nod savy AY UdYT,, 


XNOAT] U04SV5) ZeL 


HE JEU} POUTe]S OY JT YSVUL STY JJO oye} oY JY}? Popueulop pue WUTY 
poyelog A[Lsue |] s[Ty poq ou} UO UMOP Wey) Ind A[poLLMyYuUn 
9H ‘soseyoed pue soxoq jo profuse ue SuIpjoy sem oH ‘uodo 
Ji YO] Of “JOAOOSIP 0} O[Qe USdNq },UpPey | Jey) JOOp eB Ysnony 
ul sues Ape oy ‘TTeM 94} UO sow som SuIdde} IoYJV,, 
"yorq owed Yq UsyM 97e}S Jey) UT Sem | ‘OUI owes 9) 
ye JjasAW JOAO SuTAIO pue Surysne] uesoq | pue ‘jJjasAW SUTTY 
OW] We} [ jpearasop Ay[nj atom Aoy Mouy pue ‘soydonsey}es 
SNOUWIOUS }90dx9 pjnod useq peY | Se YsITOOJ se suOAUY “WOOT 
Zuissaip AU JO S]TeM oY} YSNomp) I pryeoy [ VOY SIsN]] JO [osuy 
oy} JO SdIOA oy) pojdoooR p.J YOM YIM adU00UUT jO]IEd 
oy} jo unj Suryew ul amseojd osioaiod yoo) pue uonnsiedns 
pidnjs Aus Joy JJasAur poyoroidar Apioyiq | ‘ouOU puNo} ] ‘no 
Aem & JO} Zuryoo] ‘juswyede apy] AW punore A[pIIA uel T,, 
.(uoslid punolZJepun sty ur ow dooy 0} PUSJUT JOIPUNOSS Jey} 
Soop SUOT MOY puYy {el Jo sUI0D0q 0} BSUTOS sJeUAA, “J[OSAW 
0} pres | ,jUeWIpeU eB Jo spuey oy} OJUT UaTTe} A[SNOTAQO 9A], ,, 
, poou Avewi no yeuy s}o0fFO 
Jeuosiod Joyjo pue usury oy) [Te yorq BuLq [IM pue Surddoys 
QUIOS OP 0} JNO BUOS aavy | “NOA 0} SSuUOTSq YOIyM ‘osnoy Siu} 
UI OUOTe ore NOA SUTIOg SUN OY) JO “] Ue) PLIOM oY} Ul pUSTy 
[nyjoodsaz oJOUI Jo Jay0q OU SAvY NOX ‘a}eJ MOA ynoge ALIOM 
0} NOA Joy paou OU SI a10y}, ‘pres Wt ,‘OUNSLYD Jeep AW, ,, 
“ABMB WOU) Udye] Savy pyNoM 
a)0U yey) ‘pousddey prey yey Jo AjTeOI Oy} NOgGR s}qnop AuY peYy 
pey | JJ] ‘Uonenjis pes Au Jo ow poullojur ApJeo[D Jey) YU por 
UI UdIIM 3JOU B SIOMBIP JO JSOYS SY) UO MPS |] WOOIPS 9} OJUT 
yorq owes | UsyAA “Jo}eM BUTUUNI plod pue JOY WIM Woompjeq 
d[qeyWoyuWIOD AIOA B OJ O8 0} ATUO WOOIPsg AW SALZ] P[NOd | 
-Jouostid B SEM | “SUTUIBSIP },USBAA | JeU) OZITVOI 0} SUOT SUT OYE} 
1,UpIp 31 Ajayeunyojup, “wresIp peq e& AemMe SALIP 0} Ysnoy} se 
‘peoyoloy AW 19A0 puey Aur possed | {Mou ] Sem SOU AA ‘SIOMUIP 
Jo ysoyo oddijiyg-sino7y pro ue jo do} ojqreul oy} uO Surpur}s 
durey ev Aq poyyst] sem YI pue syjem sy uo ssuIsuey suUO}QID 
em oloyy, ‘poeq AueSoyew Areurpsjo ue UJIM WOOIPsg 9s[)IT] 
ajdusts & ul osuNo] osTeyd & UO ‘oUOTe sem | dn JYOM | UO A,, 
‘daajse [oJ | ‘weap 
B JO ploysoary} oy} 0} 1 poy pue 3 poyoos ATjenpels us} ‘nos Aw 
polis jeu) orsnur ‘aoved pur ‘ionsury] ‘ssouspues Jo uoissoidwy 
o8ueys & sul sAeS Jey) OIsNUT MoU puUe ‘ot 0} SoddTd UMOUY 
-Un Sues }I ‘Sues 3 ‘pouojysyy y ‘sfendnu jueyduiniy pue ‘uyjeap 


CEL VaddO FHL dO WOLNVHd SHI 


Joyyou ‘IaANMOY ‘OH “payuonboyy pey jyeis[ey yy) s1oqssuoy 
UI SIVT[9O DY} WIJ }YSnoIg ATJeuosIed pey oy pres oy ouIM Ayo], 
YM ‘SUIM UdyOIYS & puUe YsIJAvIO [eIOAaS :oyNedde poos e& YIM 
38 [ ING paqnon Apes Suljsoy UMOp Jes J “oJOJOq YSU oy) OW 
Joy dey oy) poAeyd pey oy 194M WOO! 9Y) JO I]PpIU ay} UT 9IqGQe} 
Jeysopod vB ye WIY SUIDRy YS 0} OW PoPAUT oY ‘aINjsos B -UYAA,, 

‘93po S}I WOI, UMOP UNI seo} INOJ ‘9a SOM} ‘OUO MBS | ING 
‘yJIs yortq Jo a001d snoiajsAu yey) pouotjsonb | uoyM pey | ssou 
-ISBOUN JO SUI[IOJ SSULIS SY} POSPdIOU! jeu} pue ‘ySeUI sy} PUTyaq 
SoAd SIY 998 },UP[nod | ‘UoIssedWI0d YM sOvJ poyseUl sIy je 
dn poyooy | 7ey) HW Ut Itedsop [nynid pue [eor yons Jey 0) pousas 
[ ‘ow poaow A[dsop yey) 9U0} & UI SpJOM jse] Sou} pres oF,, 

, Uo} pue MOU YU Jood 99s 0} YOR SUIOD [],NOA UST) 
pue ‘oul Jo preyje 0q 0} 30U pouIes], oaey [[.NOA IOAO ore sAep 
SAT} BSOU} BUT} 94} Aq aSned0q ‘OUTISLIYD ‘oaly OQ [[,NOX, ,, 

C90 9q [J “Weyp Joye puy, ,, 

‘ATUL poromsue oy ,‘sAep dALJ, ,, 

"WIY poyse [ {ow dy} JO sar ay) Aq Uva NOA OP 7A, ,, 
“OIsnu UO yUads oq 
P[NOM SUIT} 9Y) JO ISdI OY} pue ‘71 paMoTye [ UsyM ATUO Os OUT ITA} 
P[NOM sy yng ‘SUI POAO] IF “OUT YIM WIIY SUTAvY Jo preye oq 0} 
UOSBSI OU SBA 3I9Y} Je) OZI[ea1 prnoys | ‘pres ay ‘Mou Ag ‘uoN 
-BUSIPUI pue Jeoj Jo UoTssaIdxo AU MBS OY UdYM BOJoq Aep ou} 
ouop pey oy se ‘ATa}VIPOUUT 3 Jo Jyaswy oaIdep 0} Yon 00} 
Aueduroos Aut paXofus off ‘our J0J sued sry ynoge ow BuT[a) Aq 
OUI SINSsedI 0} payUeM oY pres oF] ‘Apyornb ou soyy uNY Suryew 
Jo odoy sy} ut ‘oq poouU JI UY JoyeTJ 0} UdAD pue ‘Aem Aue UT 
WY pUsJJo 0} 30U paploep ATasIM pP.J ‘UIeSe YL WIM sem | OWI 

oy) Ag “19}]0q YONUI [d0f UU OpeU YIVG OU} JO JoJeM [00D SUI, 
“Ue d{quIOUOY Ue d¥I] 
Sulavyog poddo}js sy ‘uvuIpeUl.e oyI] SUTABYaq Joye ‘JI Woy) WIM 
JIOSAUL [[FY 0} POUTULID}Op ‘dU OpIsdq SJOSsIOS Jo Ited yusOIIUseUI 
eB Sulynd Joye yeq eB YOO) pue ‘WoOIpeG 9Y) OUT JAM ‘ddRj 
Sty Ul JOOP oy) powuels y “Aisuny AIOA sem J] ‘sn Joy SuNTeEM 
SBM YOUN] WS][IOXS Ue dIOYM ‘UIOOI SUIUIP 9Y) 0} OF pjnom om 
Udy) pue ‘oUIT} WYSII oY} Je W SuTjOs pue yoyem AUT BUIPUIM ‘prTes 
oy ‘Inoy ue Jey OW SAIS P[NOM IH “UOCOUII}je 9Y} UI YDOTD,.0 OM} 
SPM I JEU} OW WUOJUI 0} poustop pue ‘Aep Jo su} yeU) Je JfasAU 

powlools pue poysem Sutaey 0A JOU JOJ OUI poyYNqeal Udy} OH, 
O08] S YL 90S IOAOU [[IM NOX, ‘amsoduwios 
yeols YIM posJomsue oF ‘URU d[qQeIOUOCY Ue JO d0RJ 3) pry 


XNOdJ] 04805) PEL 


“unity, upne uog MoKA Wo Surmjowios ow Avjd nod IIIA, ,, 
,SIBak [eIOARS 
JOJ Sol J US], ‘OIsnu uo ATUO SAT] [ SW yey) SuLINp pue ‘WYySTU 
pue Aep ‘oull} B 3B SYOOM OM} JOJ I UO YOM SOWINOUOS |, ,, 
‘pres | ,‘a[qissod se WOpyas se ji UO YIOM pP[NoYs noZ, ,, 
dn oye },U0M | pue uljjoo 
JEU} OJUT SUI YIM I SAL} [I,J ‘POYsTUly sj UoyAA ‘OSE sreoX AUdAK} 
yJOM yey} uesoq J, ‘pres oy ,‘sowNoulos ssodwios | ‘soz, ,, 
‘jupydumity, uonr uog :oded ysnyz sy) Uo apy su} 
Peal pUe I Je YOO] 0} WOIssTULIOd poyse | “SoJOU Pad YIM PasaAod 
yooqajou & SBA\ pURIS SISNUI oy)? UO “]JeA BfoYM uO dn Yoo} 
yey} uesIO uv Jo preogAoy Oy MBS USI} | “IT WoI AeMe POyYOOT 
J 324) OW UO UOTSSoJdUIT Jo}STUIS B YONS SpeU UTJJOD oyL,, 
 AWTUI9}9 USAd SOI] UT 
SulppAIOAS 0} posn yoS pynoys 9M, ‘ples Yq ,“I ur dogs J, ,, 
"JI JO JYSIS oY} 3 
yorq yuerys | ‘ulyjoo usdo ue sem Adoueos oy) Jopun pur ‘sures 
apedolq pol yim Adoues e sea WOOT dy) JO IIPpMu sy) UT 
‘aDd] S21G 9) JO soyou poyeodal oy} pue jyeyS [eoIsnU snouLOUS 
ue sem Jou} ‘ssursueY [eoIouNy Yons uo Jeodde Aqyensn yey} seo} 
SO} oy) JO peajsuT ynq ‘youl IM Suny Wom spe oy “WOOI 
[erouny e OUT poddoys ysnf p,J yey) our 0} Poulaes 3] “UI jUSM T,, 
“preye oq 3, Up[noys | yey} posuoes J PUY “UNTY Sty} O} OW PO} WY 
jnoge SuIpJAIOAIS—sp1OM STYy ‘IOUULU SIP] “S}eISOY 1,UPIp J,, 
GH 99S 0} aed 
nok pnon, °° ° ‘shoLMd Joyjel $j] ‘Woorpeg AU SI SIU, ‘oul 
JO JUOJ UI JOOp eB pousdo oF] ‘pouvoUl oY ,jSUI SAISIOJ ‘YO, ,, 
“weep 
JO pol[aws spury sty yey} poyoquoulal | pue ‘Auog pue Awure[o 
tog seM poyono} pey | 3wUAA ‘AIO & IYIM ‘sTy WoIZ puvy Aur yorqg 
moszp Apyomb | yng “yuourrede sty oul MOYsS 0} ‘pres oy ‘pazueA 
oy asneceq OW 0} pueYy sIy no psy pue dn poojs oy uUdt],, 
‘QUO} OSUPI]S & UI 
poromsue oy ,{1983 UBD SUO SNOAZIPUAI JOADCYM SOP} DUO, ,, 
‘pres | ,,‘OAvIS & UI POAoy JjosInoA ayeu 0} prey S.}I, ,, 
‘punosssopun ow suruosiidut pue Aeme ou Surye} Aq uey) 3 MOUY 
oul Sue] Jo ABM JOJO OWOS PUNO}; } ,UpeY oY “OW POAC] SY JOUTS 
‘AUM WI poyse J ,“souryo Aq, Yq oweu ou) UoyR) pey oY 
yey) pue AnuNod e JOU oWeU eB JOyIOU pey oy yey} poJomsue 
OH ‘UISUO UPIAPUTPURSS JO sem oY 7eY) JUROW YU oueU oy) 
Jayjoum pure ‘sem AyTeUOTeU STY JYM WIY poyse J “yURIp Jou ge 


SET VadddO FHL dO WOLNVHd 4HIL 


TINS 9q 0} powless oYS YOM ‘UOISIA STU} ye poddojys suNsiYyD 
.,20H0Y “JoLoY ‘IoLIOY 
‘UO °° ° “yseuw sty jjo poynd 7 ‘jonuos Aw puodeqg juUoUIdAOUI 
yornb ve uyiM ‘A[suryUMU_ ‘39104 ays fo aanf ayi d0S 0} payueM 
I ‘Weop OUT Ul TIM VseUI SUTITQns yey) oye) pue—yRe JeUIO}O 
jo amy ou Aq pamsysuey oq ysnw “Yysnomw [| ‘YyoIUM—oov] 
SITY 30S 0} poyuRM | SuIAp aojoq jng ‘UoIssed yons Jo Jajua0 
ou} 38 SurAp Jo vopl oy) Aq poonus ‘poyeUrlosey pue payee ‘UTY 
0} Joso[o poddays | ‘ON! “eUOWOpsod pIWT oy} ayI] AIny sty proae 
0} ‘Wy Woy Aeme 499 0} SAOUI OU OPeUT | 9A “][9J | [[ ow Joneq 
‘OU SYLS 0} SuIOS sem oY JYSNOY) | “JSSWITY OTTO sem oH 
‘QdUSA JO JOOP] SY} JO SOVJ [eINjeU oY) JO YU) OW opeUI yseur 
yorq S.ylIq “sows Surosoid ul sn punose yno jsinq paney pue 
‘Asnoyeaf ‘aao0'] “JaMmod s}t paseoiour Ajowosome pue punos yore 
UO PoYysIom [NOS [NJoSUSA SITY ‘snoJopuNy} sem ddI0A sIy ‘yA 
JO} SY ‘Josodwi0d oy) po[zzep oaeYy prnom yey? AeM ke UI Sues 
] pue ‘syyZnow s,j90d 94} 0} oso[9 AIOA OUI IYSNoIg saouarfadxo 
yuaoor AJ “JOLIO} JUSOIIUSeU YIM polly sem J ‘Iouyed ev yons 
WIM Suisuis Aq pousyeoysip Sulog ueYy) Joey ‘alojoq poasryor 
JOAOU PJ Jey) Ivoy pue Itedsap summues e& WIM eUuOWpseq jo 
yred oy) Sues | “Jossip Joy Suripeoy Apeolye oJ9M 9M pue ‘07719 
WoJJ JonNp sy) SuIsUIs URSoq ApOJeIPOWUT 9AA “SpIoM asoy) AQ 
JUBOUT OY JY JNOgGe YUIY} O} SUIT) SALY },UPIp | Ng ‘our ye I[NSUT 
ue SuriMmy soM oy JI se .viodO 9Y)} WoIy dIsnu, pres oF],, 
, ove ounsuYD ‘eiodoO oy) Wo SIsnUI SUIS s.jo°] “sLIeg 0} yoRq 
yuom noA uoyM nok 9ZTUZ0I plnom suo OU pUe sJOTOD Ysoy 
oA aso, p,nok ssnedeq ‘A[LY{ON[—disnur Jo purty Jey) 0} sWI09 
yA },UdAeY NOA Ing “W soyoeoIdde oYyM sUOAIOAD souINsUOs 
WI JU} V[QeplWMO}J OS ST SIsNUI sWOS “sUTSIIYD ‘99s NOX, ‘pres 
pue ouvid oy) 38 UMOP Jes YI UsYM I UO YeWI 0} NOGe sem 
[ ‘quounrede oy} UI sJOyMAU SIOLITU OU 319M SIOY) yeY) poonoU 
I ‘Ye] asnf pom yey} WOOI SuIMeIpP 94} OJUT Yorqg WOM 2MK,, 
,jUdAvoYy 
jo ory oy) Aq UMOP Yonys j0U s.sy JOA pue ‘oUTISLIYD ‘sung 
uong uog AU jg ‘puTU INOA 0} syyYsnoY} SutAjipo pue sofa n0A 
0} seo} SULIQ [[IM W fox] NOA Jr NOA JOJ yezopy Avy [J “poH 
Aq poystund Ayjeuly pue ‘sora pue ‘sirejyye aac] ‘ourm Aq poridsut 
‘qu0g BC OZUSIOT SUeZOW JO SpJOM 94} 0} USWIM },useM 
uone uog yeu, ‘A[WHS pres oy ,‘Jey) OUI Yse JOAD }.U0G, ,, 
‘WOOoI A[yjeop yey) UI ZuTAe}s 0} UOTsIOAe AUT 
BSUIWIODIZAO Aq WY osvojd pinom | Suryury) ‘poyse | .jzunyd 


XNOAFT U0JSV) 9CL 


-o1 pue Joyysney, pnjiomod ‘Zurjquimi ‘yssey OUT 3sINq OF,, 
.{SNOLMS OS o1v USTIOM NOX *d¥I] POYOo] [ YM MOUY 0} 
povueM NOX Z}I sem ‘OW Iwoy 0} NOA JOJ YSNOUS 7, USBAA IT [9OIOA, 
oy} JO a0eF OY} MOUY NOA MON [SKI SYA ye Yoo] jssouyp3n 
posinds AUT YIM [Nos INOA a3es ‘soAd INOA 4S8¥9,J [99S MON j99S 0} 

poem nox j;YOoT, ‘paynoys pue oul Joao pouvsy oy Ajyeuty,, 
"+ * ‘MOUY },UOp | ‘asta YM MOUY },UOp | pue 
‘SUIARI PSIZUSITJ ‘SOSIND ‘SPIOM JUSIOYOOUT ‘OU 0} SSUTY) ouRsUT 
pres oy ‘paney so101f JO OU0) & UT ‘saoUy AU 0} [OJ [ ‘WNou 

ssaidij sity Ul Y}99) SITY SuUIpuls ‘ow preMo} sued oY UdT],, 
“ssousnoopry 
jo oseun AIOA oy) sem oy se jsnf ‘porjruosiod Jo) oyI] 
poyxOo] savy ysnul | ‘[[eM oy} ysuTeSe yorq AW YIM poojs | sy 
"+ + “Ssouysep Ul ATUO Ud0S 9q UBD SoA9 SUIMOTS STY ‘pouredy JOxeT 
] sB ‘asnedsaq ‘s}oyOOs oY} UI SuIMOYsS Soho OU YIM ‘UOUIAp B Jo 
Ainyj oulaidns ou ‘oordap o}eUITI[N S$} 0} poled Josue Zurssaidxa 
—y}tfoul pue ‘asou ‘soAo oY) JOJ—so[OY Yep INoJ sz YI 
‘pue dajI[ 0} Suto. A[Usppns Yeap Jo yseu oy ‘ued NOA JI ‘our 
-ZEW] “SATS },USeM JOMOY SINUI IISY) pUw SsoTUOTOUI aIOM sT[NyS 
osou) [[e Ng ‘[Teq poyseu oy) Je Teo poy oy)? Mes NOA puy 
‘SOLISg Ul YSU JeY}) PedY-s yeop sty MES NOA ‘oIeUYSIU o[QLIIA} 
B JO WIHOIA ot} },UaJomM Nod JI ‘oqAeul pue ‘soLInjuao JOJ poLp 
SABY JEU) ST[NYS USIS 9A,NOX {I 998 NOA oyeU [ UedD MOY pue ‘7 
Bursos dojs [ UD MOP jOSeUIT Ue Jeu AA “SdRy STY Aq payUNeYy aq 
sAemye [[IM SsoXo AUL pue ‘SOLID STU YIM poly oq SABMTe [JIM sie 

AW {i 3urses dojs Joao [ UeD MOP [YSIS yey) ‘Tnoey ‘YO,, 
‘punos 
B Oye 1,UpIp J yYsnoy) ‘yNow Aw pIp os pue ‘JoOY UI opin 
pouodo soo Ay] “oul 0} poseodde jy3Is yey) Udy ‘ose eUIOzUI 
pue ured sty jo Alo oy) ‘Wy Woy sowed yey) AIO UeUMYodns 
oy} Jeoy skemye |]. pospuny e oq 0} OAT] J JE ‘YO,, ‘Iowan 
Suo] & Aq UsyeYs SeM pure sJoy UI spuey 3uNda}01d sty pouosiidunt 
ous ,, ae oUTW se ‘sUOTIe]USWIR] JO [[NJ oq WOOS [IM sIvo MOK,, 

‘poyjdor sys ,,‘J0I90S 94) UBS] 0} ynNOGe O1,NOA yey) MON,, 
<,/SN WM ZUTUSWT 9Q 0} SUES J] ‘SUBOUT 

JO ][NJ st 3YystU Wed “WYos sTy) MoU,, ‘pres oy ,,‘asuRNs S37, 
“AYS [nyooved ‘reayo ay} 
UI SuIUTYS sIejs ay} 3 dn poyoo] suNsUYyD pue [nory ‘AJo}s Joy 
Jo 10119) oy) Aq SIOW [[Ns powUy ,.jJoUOY ‘JOLOY ‘IoUOH,, :uon 
-eUR]OXE Joy payeodar Mou ‘oueU Ss, yLIq poyeodes pry Wt se ysnf 
‘JY3IU 9) JO OSS oy? oTTYM ‘spueYy ZuTjquiay IM Aeme Surysnd 


LET VdaedO FHL JO WOLNVHd FHL 


Joujey AW UdAd UdYM ‘OUI 998 0} JUBM 0} NOA JO YSTOO} Afouersut 
SEM J] {OUI as 0} UBM NOA pip AUAA jNOA SuIdsoy UW] “JOAQIO} 
Aeme uni p,noX ‘we 7] snoopy Moy Mouy nod yeu) MoU ng 
"yorq sWI0d dARY p,NOA MOUY J “YSeq SUIOD pynod noA ‘ouospuRYy 
SEM | YUIQ) pynoo nod se SUC] SY ‘OU SAva] JOAOU UeD NOA ‘zeuy 
Jo asneseq ‘pue yseur Aut Jjo poynd nod ‘nod Joy SurAIo Ul °° 
BuIAID Wy ‘ow AUe SUTYSNe] JOU UI.J :YOO'] “SAO, MO Jo pus 
OY} 0} SUIOD 9A,9M UOYAM ‘JoJe] JOJ ‘OUNSLIYD ‘possepUS UTyJOD op 
DARY O} BUIOS UW] jJOAQU ‘NOA SARI] JOADU [IM pue ‘nod saope 
‘nod SdAQ] YU} BSdIOS B S.3 Jey} pue ‘JOOJ 0) PRoYy WOI, ‘yep 
Jo AjamuS speul Wy yeyp, ‘oovUIMy & S¥I] SuLeoN pue jzeonp 
sTy Jo yoeq oy} WoIy Suryeods ‘pres oy ,‘MOUY Jsnu noZ, ,, 
jYysoyy peop Apseys sty ‘Yysoyy SITY poyessoR] OY sTreWIOSUTT 
AU UIAA *S9RJ SI JO JOLIOY 9y} OJUI WOU) posunjd pue spuey Aur 
JO pjoy Yoo) ay Inq JOO] oy} UO WIY Woy ABME [JOT 0} Pol J,, 

, JoIoISO}) Yseur oy} JJo [Nd yom 
pue sur noX pug [[,.J ‘SOA[SsSuoy) WI Op 3,ueo AoW JT jspuey 
moX oul dad ‘spuey MoX jo} nok JuemM | [JO W [nd ‘owoy 
;aUO Joyo oy) pIp noA ABM ou) ‘JJo W [[Nd, ‘pomojoq sy ,‘uop 
‘TIOM {4Seul & SuLeOM [NS U.] YUU) NOA Og ~~ * JI aIqQIssod 
SJ] jou jo preye alnox (yey, ‘Ul O} ples oy UdqL,, 

jADOMO,, “A[90J01} poulTepoxe JnoeY ,,j MoU ‘OUI [JIT,, 
<f 1QUI0Y 
QOUI UDAD SEA JI ‘YQ °° * Wau} pue~ °° UOU pure ‘ey om Aq ou 
posseip off jUs)SI] “MOUy 0} JURM NOA SOUTS ‘OUT 0} UDd}ST'T,, 
<i UTY [TPT [LJ eseo Aue ur yng jyases op Sey 
jalay) yorq yuom noX Ay puke MOY MOUY 0} JUBM | ‘sazZ,, 
-  FMOUY 0} JUBA NOA JI ‘fnoRY “jornb oq,, 
< SUT [EP] ISNUT | [SE Oye] 
oy) Aq WOO! SurUIp, yey) WoyM oul [][9} ‘oUNSHYyD ‘oweu sus 
-ABOY UY [WY [PY 1.1, Podnuosjur jnory ,,jysnous ‘ysnouy,, 
<< UTY pyeMo} yOeq peoy Au pourm 
Ayyeqniq pue siozuly peop sty jim Irey oy) Aq oul poqqris oy ‘ow 
oreds 0} WY SuIs30q ‘wy WoIy Aeme pou) [ UoyM puy,, 
_jjuoyduniag uonf uog ut J {dW ye Joo'y, 
‘paispuny) pue peoy si sem jeu) Sum) snoopy sw pay ‘diy 
sty uo puey siy ynd ‘WYysIOYy [MY sy oO} dn JposwIY Map 3H,, 
,weng UO SB UeU JO pUTY OWS 9U} UW] jJOAQIOJ OW 
SOAOT SYS ‘OU 0} SSUOTOG dys ‘SAvY NOA se OUI USS SEY UPUIOM 
B® UOYAA ‘“OWOsSpuey Uy WUIpe ysnu NOX {poysnes noA ay, 
:SIU) OT] SSury) pres oH ,jSNOLMS os qe USMIOM NOX, ‘payeod 


XNOAFT UOISVS) SCL 


UOWWOS UT SUTyJOU peYy SuLIesy sem | WeYAA “OW postdins pey 
yey} }duIS}UOS B YIM ,PIOdO 9Y} WO SISNUI, 0} polojal oy USM 
oJ pey YU yy puejslopun 0} uesoq J usyM sem 7eU],, 
"UBZIO OY} JO punos 
oy} presy J uoyy * * * ‘ayey Surppedde Aur 0} pus ue ynd pynoo 
yey} SIOSSIOS oy} dn poyord pue yuounrede Aw ojur yorq peddiys 
] ‘908 POYSeWUN S_.JO}SUOU OY} [BdAdI pue Usdo YSU I UI UIJJOO 
oY} UM WooIpsg sy} JO JOOp oy} JUSWIOU Aue 3e Je) PdIJLLI9} 
pue ‘oul JOJ a10}s Ul Ae] JeYM Jo JYSNoYy) 9y) Je INURL, 
‘Avoap oWOsyIeoT Ue} JayyeI Ayneoq UT 
[NOS SITY PoyJO[D pey pOH JI JUd}XO Jso][NJ 9Y}) 0} oIsny JO josuy 
oy} Us0q SARY Pynom ay oqAeU pue ‘JUd)XO [BUS SOS 0} SISNI 
jo jasuy oy) sem Ayfeol oy ‘[ye Joye ‘oqAeu ‘ja8ue ue usaq 
SARY OSTe ISNU I9}sUOTH yey} ‘aouRsIsor Aue dn ynd savy },.upnos 
] UsYM SULTe sIy Ul OW Udye} },UpeYy oY dOUTS “oul preMmo} Soho 
QIQISIAUI SIY JO Sazoy Youlq om} oy) ZuTAOU Jo ABM polzuayy sTYy 
JoyIeI IO ‘OUI ye SUTYOOT Jo ABM paizuady sty Wo UOIssed sty jo 
ssauaseaes sty ospnl 0} d[qv ud0q p,J ‘9Ud0S JSeT Ino S3uLING,, 
jNOA SAO] Jey) SSdIOD & YIM ACIS B OPT 
yorq OF },UOp NOX j;YOVq dWi0d Jou plnom AyuTezIE9 | ‘squIooR}eD 
asoy? JO INO 103 IOAD [ JT ‘MOU Ng j;Yyoeq swW0o savy prnom 
[ ‘sniues sty UM OU poyeuTUe peYy oy }eU) pUe DdIOA 9) Sem 
OY JY) JOSIOJ OUI DYeW },UP[NOdD ssouoats[ndal siy :[njoyesun 
1,useM | ‘AT[eUIy puy ‘eazy sty ySIsaz 0} OUI JO} B[QIssoduit yt oyeU 
0} ‘sieo} poyseu sty Aq Yysnous Ayid Au posnose pue ‘ysnous 
SUI Po}SoIS}UI pue poyono) Apealye pey of] “20eJ SITY Uses },UpeY | 
JE yorq SWIOD SARY P[NOM | ‘SOX “[eoIZO] sem Sutuoseal s Jo}suow 
oy} JY) Joppnys & YIM pozIpeol | Inq SssouyseI AU! pasINd T,, 
‘AemAue HW poyono}) pey | pue ‘yseul sty yono} },uprIp 
[ SB SUC] sv JoSuep OU UT sem | Jey) OUI Plo} pey oy :BurUTeEM ITE] 
OU USAIS pey oF] “AJostur Aur [Je Jo asneo oy) 9q prnom AjISOLMO 
AU. pue JaAdJOJ pouostidut sem [ *Jedxa 0} JeYM UI Po} pey 
Jo\SuOU SY, “ysew yeu) Jjo po~nd Suraey Aw Jo saouenbasuos 
J[QILU9} OU} UO ,D9]JOI 0} BIQU SBM | PUP UIO}S yey) PaMoT[O] pey 
‘MARIS SY} JO SOUDTIS BU} ‘IdUDTIS snoIsipoid W ‘3dRy sIy Jo WSIS 
SUN[OASI 9) JO Pll MOU 3NQ pooY [Ms ‘syy8noy Aw WWM 
QUOTe Io] SBM | ‘IOOP 3} POsO[D puke WOOIpsq sTy OUT 9UOS pry 
dy USYAA ‘OYVUS & SYI] WOO] OY} JO JNO payMeIO oY UDY], “Surqqos 
‘IOO]J 94) UO SUILIM Sem pue OU Jo O8 jo] AT[eUT] pey oqy,, 
,JOIOWAUB SUT 99S 0} SARY 1,UP[NOmM sys OS 
yseur ysty AW ow oAeS JoyoW Suidoom Au pue ‘oul MES JOADU 


6eT VuaadO AHL JO WOLNVHd 4HL 


JOJ OUI YOO) sy yey) YON Os OUI JSNQ 0} OWED ATTeNpEIs 947,, 
“OU UO BILD JO SPOS [Jv POYSTAR] pue SALTS 
[njuprey Aut oy] poyoe oF] “JO}seUl sj 0} osoj[O SurAe}s Sop puny 
B OY] ‘WTY ye YOO] ou oyeuI 07 AN 0} porep sy SuUISUTS j,USeM 
oy UsyYM UdAd yey) A[SUIOUIAUOD OS poARyog { pue ‘yseUl sIy 
pouing | ‘woposyy Aur ures 0} a[qe sem |] Sond Jeu) Je pue ‘UIST 
paridsur oyM Jo}sUOU Ot} se Snoopy se o19M sor] AJA] “WY 0} pol] 
I qorym Suimnp syoom OM) ‘SYIOM OA} JOJ UO JUOM JY ° ~~ “Apa 
-3el) 9y} MoUY NOA MON {ORY ‘NOA []9} J ULSD VSO IVY AMA,, 
“soho AU pasopo PJ 
yey) 99S 1, UpIp pue ssarp Aut Jo wy sy) possTy oH * * * “poddojs 
pey oisnu oy) pue ‘WNOU! peop sIy WOT, SAO] JO SPIOM TIM 
" "QAO, JO SPIOM WIM soouy AU ye [JOJ pue AuNsop preMo} 
spuey sso[ysoly siy poste oH “JjosAul ur wyrey pey “Ajoyeum 
-JOJUN ‘00} | puke ‘OU POAdITSG SY IsneVdeq “puNosJe pow) 3H,, 
_jsnmues mod jo Jopusjds ay} ynoge SuryUID 
Ul.J asneseq oq [JIM 3 ‘NOX ye Yoo] | UoyAA UTeSe JoAIND JOA | JI 
pue ‘pyJoM oy} UI Ue OUTTTQns pue SuIpUaNesy soul oy) o1,nNoA 
yey) IEMs | “Jeoj NOW 39ej} MOA OUI MOUS, ‘pres | .“WA, ,, 
“‘punore uIN} 0) preye sem 
ay Inq ‘ow presy oy UoyM dn poojs oF] “YA Woy oul poyeredes 
yey} Joop oy} uado poysnd [ “yunIp alom J JI se yoy I., 
“20BJ oY) UT AjNvaq YOO] 0} pazyep pey ‘oAo] Jo ssulM 
oY} UO poly ‘ssoulTsn yey} pue SuIpus sem YOM oY) poziyear 
[ ey) ‘oze[qe pyiom oy) SuMjes Aysuruees ‘AuoydurAs yeyduniy 
B YONs pleoy [ pue ‘uns oy} pyeMO} SuIeOS BseO Ue Sy] AS 
BY) OWI SLI 0} powoss Jeu) YoY SumIIMS & “YS Surusjeonp 
‘snorsipoid & UI JoyjOsSO) oWeD ATUSppns ssAqge oY) Wor, spunos 
oy) USY], “OUIAIP opeul sem MOZIOS YOIYM UI spJOYyD oNueSIS 
JO ZUTTJAaMS 3y) 0} poudjst] | ‘syeUOIssedwO. pue ‘pouIPOyMIOAO 
‘Suidsey ‘woy} usJYysUy 0} Jou se os ‘ajdood Aq uses SuUIIG 
SUIPIOAR pue ‘TOY Jey JO S]TeA UILIS oy) JsUIeSe peoy snoopry 
‘ood siy 3ursueq yu ow pomoys W Suow 473n ay Aq poyqeyul 
ssAqe oy} Jo wed AIA OU pue WOpIAeUI JO spiejop ou) [ye OVW 
SUI YOO) I “‘PpOoTq UI UdyLIM Ud0qQ PRY SISNUI siuy Jey) pourlseuN 
Ajisea pue ‘jf UI S3}0U Por UJIAA YOOS}OU 9Y} PoISquUISUISI J,, 
AJOSTUL poss 
sty [je pooeyd pey yy Jood yorym ur gos jusoTjTUseUT “3]qQLUIS] 
‘Suoy & ATWO SII] Je DUI 0} polsos—juOWOW JUISoId oY) JO JOLIOY 
QU} JBSIO}J O} DddIdIO}SeUI STY OJUT J[OSUITY UMOIT) pey sy ans sem J 
—junydumniuy, uone uo sty “uatp []A our payysyyap pey yey TIM 


XNOF] UOJSVS) OFL 


jS910J dy} OJUT porvaddesip Aay) oJojoq pue ‘wWI0C}s SuTyoeoidde 
ue Wo Yysnoy se ‘Aeme uel OUNSTIYD pue oy yey) ATUSIOIA 
OS yede UIO} sem JY4SIU BuIpuNoUNs oy} Inq ‘UISy)? YOO) 9H 
_, WY} Oye} ‘OUI ISB] pUw SIT] OU} JO7 
‘sdiy Aud nod 9AId },UpfNOM | NOA SAOT },UpIp | Jt ‘Aep e Jo Jouely 
Aut ‘yO,, “You sty punose sue sulquiay [njynesq Joy ynd pue 
‘osje dn poojs sys ,.{Suls oyl] ‘purut AU JO yorq ou} Je UOppIYy 
dooy | Jey) surg) ynoqe yse AYA {[noey ‘oye 3durs) AYM,, 
Gul SAO] NOA pynom 
‘quiospuey dsIOM YU J] LOW sao] NOA op ynq ‘preye a,nox,, 
« /Prerye UW] jpreqe Wy puy “oul YM 9A Ut 
Ajpeul alow usAe Wy opeul ‘podoy | se WY SuTW]ed Jo peojsul 
‘WIay} JO YORd osneseq ‘UITY Jo JoUOY AW posvaJOUl YLIq 0} SPISTA 
AUI JO Yous Jey} NOA ]]d) OUT JO] ‘OS FT {I IQnOp [[Hs nos oq,, 
., SW poaoy nod yey) payqnop | sInoy sso} suLING,, 


_ Josuep 
yeoI3 Ul yJOG sn ynd pue—nod WIM smnoy Moz dsoy} JUads | Jeu) 
Jaquisulal ‘nowy ‘noA puy ** * ‘WWoUWSSIse MO seM JeUL,, 


< {T@Q Poyseus off} JoquiIowloy 

jNOA psoyy oy Jaye sinoy Moy e ATUO YI 0} yorq yuom noX 0A 
‘gut aaoy nod Kes noX,, ‘dn Surpuejs ‘noey pres ,,‘ounsLys,, 

«A 

Joog jJU_ Joog ‘wiry 0) d4q-poos pres |] usyM JSnoy | ue 

A]SuoNs sJOUI WY 0} BUI poyoeNe sqos sso], ‘peoy Joy yooys 

Aypes ous ,,‘quio} sty Jo proysem) oy) Uo paqgos ay AeA ou} sem 

WI :piom Aur daoy 0} ou podjsy yey} self OUI Jos OY UOYM speUl 
ay sjeoIy) SuruaYsUy ay} },useM 3 ABs JSNUI | pue ‘pIp | ‘saX,, 
“Ajpayoofop pres [noevy ,,‘yoeq SWIOd pip Nod puy,, 

ce oeq, UO 

IL.1, ‘WY plo} | way oul poAdl[oq oy ‘sOyIO Je JOY JO ‘sedsop 

‘WISEISNY}US IM pue ‘souly) ows ye Ayd YM poof sea | YOTyM 
ut AyiAndeo s[qeurmoge yey) Jo syoom om} Joye ‘ATTCULY,, 

*ATUNOD 3) SABI] 0} JNOGe a1OM NOA 

yey} wy Surya) Aq wy WTeD 0} aTqQe sea J ‘NOA Jo snoyeal AQUA} 

§,o4 osnedeq ‘aul Joy snoysesip Apeou sem NOA JowW om IYSIU 

WL ‘eUs0[Nog ep slog ou) Jo syed ATOUOT 9Y} OUT sn Yoo) 1 

pue sn Joy Sunrem sem oseLueo B ody], “OQuIOg ony oy) JO o3es 

-sed punosZsopun oy} sesojd yey} a7e3 ou} YSNoIMp ‘WYsTU ye ‘our 

yoo} oy Ayandes Ault Jo puso oy) pyeMO], “yeOQ sty Ul JoyeM Avis 

S}I SSOJOW SOPLI JOJ pue ‘oUJOAY dye] JO JOYS oy? SuoTe syyeM 


aia’ VaadO FHL dO WOLNVHd dHL 


“o1K] S OT[Ody 
JO SSULQS 9y) 0} SUITS 0} SuMOes pue soko SUIMOTS Sy YIM 
UWIdy) Je Sues ‘wey? saoge YSIy pIiqYysiu ssuowUWI Ue WOU) 
Pomoyus ‘YL JO JOS} WIM poy ‘sada tay) ‘sIoquIT} Joo! Jo 


XNOAa] 104805) ZL 


crL 


§ o]Jody 0} Wry payreu saey pnoys | ‘yA Mes AT[eol 3M J], 
‘Iowed ZUIWIODIQ SPM OYM ‘oUTISIY) pordar , .‘uon 
-BUIZPUE INO JO MOPeYS dy} WoI ABME UNI 9A,9M UI) I,, 
<< OFT] AU Ur ou) Isa 
au} Joy ‘AWMe UNI ou ZuTyeUI o1,noX,, ‘paquned Ajdaop ‘tnory 
ples ,,“ounstYyD ‘A[pIeMod SUIYJOWIOS OP SUI SUTYBUI 31,NOX,, 
., blodQ oy) UI sABMTR S.dF] “SMOUY DUO ON,, 
«62204 SUIOp oY S,Je4AA,, 
_, UBISIOg OY) S.9H,, 
< GUBLU JEU} SI OUM,, “‘Poyse olf ,.Co St OUM,, 
‘ZuluUNI UO 08 0} WY 3UIdIOJ ‘Buoe [noeY por[nd sunsuyD 
‘yey pojyulod ve SuLeom pur 3e09}vaI3 JO 
pury e& yeousq Uappry ‘odeys ansea oy} poropo , jAUNH jOD,, . 
‘uoneurdxs ue Joy yse pue dojs 0) poyuem [nory 
“S3UIM OU} 
0} WY} d¥e} p[nom yey) [Jey Joyjoue 0} payutod ams oy) puy 
. (ABM SE} ION [ON,, 
‘uyed 11013 
BUTYOOTG ‘Way} JO JUoIs ul paseodde omsy osueys ev AjUOppns 
| ‘payosap 
Q19M S][eY oy) pue WYSIU yey) DOUPULIOJIOd OU sem aIOY] ‘UMOP 
ABM JY} UO IJOOT IYYSIo oy} 0} owed Ady) [HUN dos you pip Aaj 
pue ‘yep oy} UI ATUO Udds 9q P[NOd yey? SdAd BUIMOTS aIOM JID) 
a19yM JOO! 34} Wo Aeme ‘URI pue Ue ANLISIHHD ANV TNOVY 


s1oopdeiy, jo 
IdAO'T Jy} Aq axOISIa}se. V 


VL 


‘PIOM SIY UI SAaI[Oq [ pue ‘oJOWAUe WOOI SUISSoIp AUT JO STTeM 
ay) purysq 3q },Up[nom oy jeu) pPJOM SITY SUI SARS SY ‘ON,, 

,, 00} Way} YSnosy} sn Iesy ued oY ‘sTTEM 
oy} Ysnom) uty Jeay NOA DdUIS,, “poyse oy ,,{SUIP[Inq oy) Jo 
}SO1 OY) Ul UL) WOO sIy) UI Joyes o1,noA yUIY) NOA op AYM,), 

‘WOOI SUISSOIp S$ sUNSLIYD 0} owed ASYL, 
“UOISSoIdxa WOOF ‘[NYSNoy) e YIM 
peoy sty Suryeys ‘[noey posomsue ,.‘J[oSAUI JO} pue YW Jo,,, 
gq Joy yeu) Burkes nod aly,, 
_, Peo] Butaq Jo ans },UaTe pue dA] UT oI, AoU} USM ‘soZ,, 
.<GdA0] Ul or, Aou) USyM 
Addeyun ajdood ary ‘ou! [[9} prnoys oyM suo 3Y) o1,noZ,, 
_ (SUBOUT Jey) JeYM UT I[9} oseord NOA IITM,, 
<< «jue [ se 
Addeyun se aq 0} wiry yuRM | ‘S903 oY BJOJog “ANUNOD oY} SAROT 
uOOS ][,o4 pue NOA YIM dAOT UT st AUSeYD op [NoeY JUNOdSIA 
"NOA ISNT} [, ‘OW! 0} ples oH ‘[nowy ‘W noqe smoUy oy Ing,, 
<<GPosesuo SUIAg ye 
Aeyd sn ja] 0} nod Jo Sunep sem 7 JeU},, ‘ApIoNIQ pres oy , ‘MOU 
nok og ‘Jey) UdAd NOA paMoTe oy yey} Wt JOF AYONT SII,, 
_ aay ing siayMAue NOA 39S },Up[NOM 
I yey) wy pastwmoid [| :piom Aw dooy 1,upip J JI Yon], peq 
sn 3uliq pjnom 3] ‘Joujo30} Aeme o8 AT[enjoe om [TN 30U ‘ON,, 
_, peasul visdO sy) SpIsInO SIOYMOUWIOS JOU S.39'T,, 
_, WOOI Zulssosp AUI 0} O83 S,30T,, 
. NOK puryaq suryoo] dooy nod yey) i JO uTeIIOUN OS d1,NO}J,, 
_< SN YIM pousaoU0D JOU SdH ‘JUunyduniay uons uog 
sty UO SuTyIOM soy yey) NOA pfo} Apeorye 3A.J “3,Upip oy ‘ON,, 
. (J4sIUO} sn presy savy 
ABU SH {MOLIOWO) [[ Wem AY AA “OW SADITSG ‘MOU JI OP 0} JonAq 
Sj, ‘pres oy ,,‘davoy 0} purus Ino dn opeul 9A .noA souIS,, 
‘POMOT[OJ [NoeY pue JOO SIOW! OUO UMOP yUSM OUNSTTYD 
og ¢ SIA] BY) JO SSULNS OY) YSNoIY} AWD sy) Ie UMOP SUTYOOT 
sIejs OM} JO Sjop pjo3 oy Ajuo Ayqeqoid sem soko SUIMOTS 
SE MBS | LUA, ‘JJaSINOA 0} Aes UO) puke IOAO I YUIY) [[,NOA Ing 
jISYMAIOAD WIY des 0} Apeod :OU OXI] SUTUIOSOG O1,NOA MON,, 
_, aloyy dn a0M sodd SUIMO[S SUL,, 
., Asbo JOU 
S$. yey) pue ‘osAT S oT[ody 0} dn quips 0} pey saey p,nod 4SILJ,, 
_, UY YIM poysiuly us0q CARY P,oM 
uoy} pue ‘AURyLIG UI s]jeM osnoyULIeZ 0} poyreu ore spMo se ‘OIA] 


XnNOLJT] U0ISD‘) FPL 


,, Joy punore 
PMOIO & YIM SYR] OY) Je POALUe say p,oYs pue seRq sUTISTIYD 
POMOT[OF SABY P[NOM DUOATOAT {301998 UT aay} oUOs savy nok 
PInoo Moy {Aq Surssed oe sIoyJOM JOJO pue spuBYyose}s aroy 
syjey Suoye pue soseoiejs umog {SIe][eo oy) [Te Yysnomy,, 
<< O4V] OY} 0} APOaMIp Buro0s Aqg,, 
«<6 JOD 3Yy) YSnoIy}, WOOT ZUISSaIp INCA SARIT 0} MOY 
MOUY },UOp NOA jt aay) OF 0} posoddns no oxe Moy puy,, 

., WY JOOW O} SUI Plo} SY SIOYA\ S.jey) ‘sax,, 
jo Wool ZuTUIp oy) UT NOA JO yTEM pu O8 0} S,ay soURULIOJIAd 
oy} Surpusye Joye yey) Aes nox ‘osrmoid Aur dooy [J ‘suod 
-dey JeyM JoyeU ON,, “JaquIOS SORy sTy ‘pres [noey ,.“IyZrupru 
38 ‘JYZIU MOLIOUIO) WOOI SuIssomp MOA UT dIOY 2q [I,J ‘SAX,, 

OJ! 1,UST ‘poorse 
S Jey jj[eshw jo oyids ul o8 ow oyew ysnu nod uoyy],, 
. ., jsuTyAue 
Op 0} poUluia}ap oq 3,u0M nok MOLIOWO}) Aq asneoeg,, 
<< Nowy ‘oul [AL,, 
<<GI4SIUO} ABeMe OF 0} SN OT P,J AYA NOA []9} | [eUS,, 
., MOLIOW} ‘SoZ,, 
«GoW WIM ABme OF 0} poUrUUsjep [Ns nod ary jwry 
ynoqe ye) NoA MOF{ ,j]][e §,JeU} ‘yVIeS pue USAROY Jo UeU Y, ,, 
<< TP $,7eU} 
‘yes pue UsAvoy JO URU B S.aF7 “JSOYS & JOU S,oy ‘ON,, 
<, ISOYS & OUT Yorq wry WIN) [[,NOA Jo ‘[nJored 9q,, 
<, SUIAT] SU) JO ppJom sy} 0} UMOUyUN 
ore yey} ssuly) smouy oy pue ‘op pjnoo uew Joyo ou jet) 
SZUIY} SAOP S}] ‘PUNOIZIapuN saT] 0} Zulsnure I spurl oy ULI e 
S,oY Jey} YUM) },WJsnU NOX ‘sniues snorns AISA & S,ay {JjoswUTY 
OS OUI pPfO} SH “OUI JeoY [Toy ‘WITY [Teo [| QoyM JoyeUI ON,, 
400K Ieoy oY PInom,, 
co CFO} YA 
[Ted pue “ayxe] 9Y} 0} spes| Jey) oSessed yoID0s ay) JO pus oy) 0} 08 
0} savy p.J ‘nod WIM AeMe SutuuNI Jo peojsul ‘uo, “urese Aeme 
OU SAB} WYSIW JOM oy) asned0q ‘snoIOSuep 9q pjNoM J,, 
.<GSJUSUISAOU INOA JONT|sUODEI 0} AT) OM TeEYS {Tey yep 
3Y} OUI Usye} USdQ PUL WOO SI} Yo] SAeY NOA pfNod MoT],, 
. Woy) Ur 
WJ uaym Aovatid Aut sjoodsor oy pue aur 0) ATOAtsnjoxa Suojaq 
‘aye] ay) Aq osnoy oy) UI WoOIpeq Au pue ‘wool SuIssaIp AT 


SPT VdaddO AHL JO WOLNVHd FHL 


‘preoy pey 
ay SurmpAIoao WWM patdnosocd ‘ouoy juoM ay ‘[noRY JO} sy 
‘yeoddvol Sull 
ou) Syeul 3S yr yey) sdoy oy) Ur IQnop OU ‘JOJO YOR ZuOTe 
s1a3uly Joy SUIpI|s [JUS ‘ssoNsIp yeors ul Aeme poly sys puy 
_,jMOMOUIOT, jON,, ‘pres ays pue soa Joy Ul paMmoys Ieoj 
Udy} INg “JUasUOS 0} ZUIOS sem sys IYSNOY) oF] “poyeysoy 9YS 
“uTeSe a0u0 pajsisul oy ,,‘Mou ‘ABMe UNI [T.9M,, 

_ jadeose prnos am ATUO Ji ‘YO 
isn 0} uoddey [IM [nJMe SUIPPOWIOS {MOU HW pUIy OM ULD MOY 
(20s oY) OUT udTTey pue Josury Aur jjo poddys savy ysnur su 
OU L,, “SUl[quian ‘uretdxe 0) por ays , ‘IAT S,o[[ody Japun ‘fool 
ay} uo dn ‘ssry yey) Nod dAe3 | USYM pouoddey savy Jsnut jf,, 

‘Joy Wed JOU p[Nod 9H 
‘WI pUlJ JOU PIP Inq BuLI ay) JOJ Woy) punore [Te poyoo] Aasy], 
_<{SQ JO YO JO a[QUIIS) st sIy], jJosuIy AUT WI aUOs st BULI 
ay) ‘jnoey ‘fnoey ‘YO ,josuUsAal oye) [[IM YU_ osneseq ‘},upey 
no YstM [][.NOk ‘31 YM wed Joao NOs jt ng “pus Inok aq 
[[M YL pure JoZuep [je wosy poyoojoid 9q [[,NOA ‘uo WI savy NOA 
sv Zuo] sy ‘sJosuly Nod UO aq SABAMTE [IM SULT SIT) Jey} UOTIPUODS 
UO ynq ‘aaaJ NOK Sus UI], ‘ples oy SU O} WT oARs oY UOYM 
yey) SI MOWY 1,UpIp noA Jeym yng j[noey “yey? MoUY NO4Z,, 
{Suu pjos yey) nod saves OYM YL sem 7 Os ‘YY,, 
« OU BARS OY BUI pos sy], 
_{aUNsHYyD ‘JjasinoX uo dud ve joy {uvoUT NOA Op Jey MA,, 
66 “sul oyL,, 
‘popeojd oy , ‘oul [Jo], ZSUOIM S.7eYM,, 
{pop Aul ‘YO jpoH Au ‘YyO,, ‘UoIssoidxo yysney 
-SIp & YM pajyeodal pure Jayjo yoeo Suoye sJosuly Joy prs 24S 
‘g[qeor[dxoul sJOU puke IOU sUTed0q IOTARYEq S,sUNSUYD Ing 
_,jMOA Jeay pynoo sy SW plo} NOX,, ‘palapso [noeY ,,j}9INO,, 
«(Ul 
uo AdIoUl GARY jAWA jAVY,, ‘Powlepoxe oys ,,jpoH Au ‘yO,, 
“208y JOY 
J2A0 peoids Jojjed AjyBVAq] “JO[OD asueyd Joy Mes ATUSppNs 9H 
_ {fedeneg & 9q plnom ywYL,, “A[ULNY pordor sys , jJOAON,, 
_ Kay Jeu} Ul 9AIS 
QSed[q “axe] oy} 0} APOoMp speol osessed oy], ‘puvysiopun ]J,, 
«6 SQHOS 
ony oy) Jo asessed punolgiopun sy) 0} Ady oy} SI SIYL,, 
“WIY 0} T pomoys pue xoq Be Wo Ady 3Iq B YOO) aY4S 


xnOsFT] U04SV*) OFL 


os[e of] “MOUY 0} poyueM oy yeyM sem Jey ZAUOoTeGq sw UO 
‘SSe[s OY} PUIYSq JO ‘JOOP sy) Jo ssv[s oy) pue poq sy} UdEMIOG 
Ady} SI9A\ “‘P2q 94} JO 300} OY) Je ‘arom [IMs osom soko ou]. 
‘dury] ay} yno ynd ay urese soup 
‘21QE} OpIspoq oY} UO Yovol UTYTM [o}sId ou) 
TIM ‘SULIOATYS ‘UTeSe poq 0} JUAM df] “JOOP oY) Posoyo pue sprsur 
yorq sured ay Us} ‘AUOSTeq poyosep 94} JOAO s0UR]S 0} ATUO su 
Oo} oH “AT[TYO sem YSU syy “AUOoTeq ay} 0} JOOp peze{s oy 
pousdo oy ‘puey sty ur joystd oy) WIA “Yep oy Ur 3 Woy [oysId 
B YOO} PUL SIOMBIP JO JSOYS OT] & 0} ‘UIYSIYSIU sty UT ‘UBT OF 
, Auoopeq oy} UO soy “Yq 9731 J1,, ‘TYSnow oy puy 
«GOA JE ST sous Jo “yLIds ‘UEP ZY ‘Nod yeup s],, ‘Ino por 
oy ‘osemos sty dn pouowums oy yorym BuLMp souslis B Joy 
“Pinos oy se Ajaaviq se soo oy} ye YOR pareys pue dn yes oF7 
“podsed oy ..i40., 
‘poreoddvar soXo ayy, 
‘durey sty yno 3nd urese pue poq oyu yorg 103 ofy 
<, SOA SOT) 
MBS J JROMS 0} JURM 1, Upfnom | {ZumpAue Jo ans jou Wy] MON 
{uoneurseun Aw ur Aquo ourys Aoy) pig {mou ysnf soko Sutmoys 
OM} 908 ATTeOl | PI {908 7 PIp wYyM puy,, ‘“suoamb ‘poppe oy 
«<GMBS OYS FUN OYS PIP JY AA L998 SYS PIP JY AA LUISEq oONseyURy 
oy} pue pus Ayqeal scoop o1sy AA 4oTe) Arey B YoNs WM ‘oAdr[aq 
Jou JT p[hoys ywyM,, “Pnoye pres ay , {Zaddijoq J pfnoys yeyAA,, 
“SNO[NOIPH Iof OY UOY], “PFS e sy] ‘poq ou} 
JOPUN PexOO] 9H{ “WOOT oy} poyorees A[snonnes pue dn 103 oy 
<< SOY} [[YS st Jfosummy oy aqAeur 
yng ‘ouTed IYST] oy} UsyM poreoddesip saXo stp] “yep oy) UI ATUO 
Usas 9q P[NOd soAd sIY Jey) OUI Plo} aYS,, ‘ATIseoun yYyZnow oF] 
“poystuva soko oy, ‘duel ay) poyysty] oy ‘soysyeut Jo xoq ay punoy 
oy uoyAA “Apueysoy podoss pue s[qe} opispoq oy 0} puey sty 
INO poYyovel SH{ “SUT[QUION sem [NoeY ‘sem oy YSnou) savig 
‘ssouysep oy) ul Aur 
-SeUdUT WY Je parejs AOY], poq Sty Jo yo} ou ye poseodde jsnf 
pey ‘sTeoo joy axl] Surmoys ‘soko omy], ‘sopduray sty UMOp popyorn 
JBOMS P[Od puke MOQ[a BuO UO J[esuITY poster oy ATUSppns ing 
<(PNELZ [PNeL j[pNnesj,, ‘sown samy poynoys op “YW y[NsuI 
0} poou B Way ‘SsouyJep sy} ur SutAT ‘pue due] sty yno ynd ayy 
. «JO OARS 
ILI INQ “ISOT S,9Y4S,, “poq 0} Sulos sem oy se ‘woOIpaq sIy 
UI pnhoye pres oy ,,‘pnedy Jeu) WJZ Joy SARS },UOP | JI, 


LPT VadidO AHL JO WOLNVHd 3HL 


_<Jsoys Surpoo[q B puly 0} o[qQIssod aq pynoys 
HE ‘Te JOY “ALIA Joy Yoor our djay 0} J0y30q Op p,nox juresy,, 
jan oyBM {PUTT INOA ysOT NOK dAeH j[Noey,, 
<< POq 0} But 
-08 a10joq sures Auooyeq ey) SuIsofD Jo UONNeOAId oy) Udye} 
P.J Jt pouoddey sary },uUpfnom simp [TV ji Joy ow SAIBIO} 
you Aeul ouNsYy pue ‘Jooys 0) SucIM seM J aqAeul 3ng,, 
‘Ayorxue USppNs WIA poppe OFT ,,jPOOTq sty st sty} pue—soAo 
S.yq olom Aoyy ‘sieis OM} ye JOYS pey pue Zurureolp sem 
[ 148noyp | “3f 90s ued sUOAUR ‘poo]q 24} 99S UBD NOA,, “ApUSN 
-edun poajsajoid jnoey .,jsoujoiq Jeap Aut ‘doaojse jou UL,],, 
‘dagjs snorosuep 
sty WO JoyeMdesys e asnol 0} SurAy FI se wTY yooys oddity 
< {noey jfnoey j[noey,, 
“ysne] WHS & UTM pres 
oY ,,jSholesuep ssoy st spos[q yey) IsOYs W [Pood jpoojq so] 
‘aioyy © °° Moy © * * poolg jpoo[”,, “powtefoxs oY ../4O,, 
‘pues siy TIM AUOoTeq 
94) JO JOOTJ SY} JOAO SuruRsy seM [NORY “peoy s,ueUT B Jo IYSIOY 
ou) Je sse[s oy) Ysnom su0S pey jo[[nq e yey) Mes oddiyy 
-Kuooeq sy) 00 paddays pue ‘100p pozeys oy} pousdo ‘ueAIas 
B WOI, s[pued B yoo) ‘sIoddijs pue aqor sty uo ynd ‘dn 308 ay 
++ no 
pul] UOOS [[,oM PUY,, “[NoeY ples ,,“snOLN][ap jou UI] ‘ON,, 
‘joysid oy} dn poyoid oddipmyg puy 
_.jpousddey yeya oul [f[9} 9sed[q jYOIS I.NOX jSNOLMTop 1,noK,, 
., suIdaaIs 
Woy SUI }doy JY} SIeIs OM) JB JOYS J “SUTUBOIP sem | YUM I,, 
..d{nory ‘pousddey yeyA\,, 
‘snorxue Aqua) ‘oddipyg qunod ‘sjdood “yWyYsr] 
‘pozeaddesip pey sivjs Om) OY} OUI SIU], 
“ure3e Jooys 0} Apes ‘[o}std sty yno surpjoy ‘ssouysep 
QU) OUT Suryooy ys fnoey ‘syjey oy} Suoye powiny sdojs}ooy 
aly puy ‘asnoy Surdaeys oy) Jo soved oy} posoyeYs jOYs SY], 
- + + KsuM]o 00} JOU seM OY] JI pue ‘Wsy} sAOgeE peoyaro; 
B SEM aJ0U) JI pue ‘soko alam Sieys asoy) JI “OUIT) BuO] & poUlTe 
dH ‘MOTs ssopuonour o8ueNs e YIM WY Je SUT{OOT [[HS som 
yey) ses Uapjos om} oy) ye WI poue pue joysid sty dn poyord 
ay ‘WY punose yYy3TU oY) SuIqimMsIP noyIM ‘ATUITeD ‘APUONE 
"+ + *ZurpjAIaad MOUY 0} PoyUeA 
oH ‘Sulog ueulny e 0) posuojaq soa asoy) JI MOUY 0} poyuEM 


XNOLIT U04SUS) SFL 


‘dissoS o8eysyorq aacl[aq 0} are OM JI ‘Auseyd op nory 
WUNODSIA puB ‘JosuIS oneiedo ue ‘oeed SUNSLYD s][2sIowW 
“Opef US9MjOq JUSUTSSeSUS OY} SI SO[OIID ONIOOISLIY UT SMO 
ysis OU], ,, “dauunwu pays v ui pnojp suippaa ‘jnovy 
‘uUIN]OS disso ve 
Ul W9}T Ue 0} syutod pue ‘anbod7z J ‘1odedsmou & no spjoy oH 
ASI) peay,, -addiiyg 


‘HOYS sem BUdS OY], “JUaTIS pue AWOOTS ‘poate 
[nowy “wry utof 0} JoyjoIq sIy SuTyse prom yuos oy ‘Apmis sty 
Ul yoo} skemye oddifyg yorym “Iseyyeolq ye ZurwsJow yxou oy], 
‘veg sUNSsIIYD 
poweu Josuls & pawleouos sXkemye YW pue ‘syjem ou YSnomp 
piesy sem SuNNOYS ‘sioop paso[s pulysq yauenb ysny Jroy) Jou 
SBM }I ples SJUBAIOS DY, “‘UMOUY SUTeD9q IJOAOU IYSIU Jey) JOO 
Yows 0} ples siowpolq ay) yeyM Apex 3nq ‘ayensisew Surur 
“WEXd BY} “ONLY INdIsuOJ] 0} payeodal Jaje] sem sOUDIUAS SIT, 
<< SVB SUTISLIYD WIM ddoja 0} Sur03 
WJ 3ysIU MoMOWOL,, ‘Ajeseyduia pue Apounsip Aes jnoey 
suLesy Woy joyea s,oddiptyg yuoaaid 0) ySnous Apyornb SABI] 
JOU PIP SJUBAIOS Ot} INg “SJOYJOIG OM} 94) UO Poso]d WOOIpPeq st) 
JO JOOP SY], ‘SAR 0} SJUBAIAS OY} SUTT[D) oINjSOs B opeUr [noeY 
 /OTOM OY YSiM T “peop jOU s,ay JI puy j[eAl AW s,oH,, 
‘puey S,jnoey sulzeonbs ‘addiryg poyse , {Yq st ouM,, 
‘wodar s,Aressturuios sarod ay} Jo SIseq ay} UO UOTSNTDUOD 
B Suryoror ul AyNoyyIp ou pey ajensiseu Sururwexs oy) Ja9}e] 
pure ‘woy) Aq podems sem addijiyg uoAq ‘poSuesop sem pur sty 
yey) o[dood Aueur sourauos 0} podjoy syewles sou) pue ‘wTY pyo} 
pey ounsuYyD yey) “Temnjeutodns pue feor yjog A[Surwoss ‘sSunp 
esURS oY} PUk SUISOUOD sTy 0) pojefor A[eoIZo] pue Ayosopo 
OIOM IVY} SHIVWOI 1BZ1q SUTYLUI ‘UIA Jey) UT UO JUOM [NORY 
«/ MOUY JOA NOA YA WIM ‘ou ‘ON {MOPeYS JO YSeT] WI SeAA 
SOUS OY) I SEA {JO BW SEAN {YW YW seAA jMoUy JoAou nok 
“YH WA ‘o[qissod aymb s.31,, ‘sreo s.addrpyg ur Aynymouos 
Popunosal Jey) Ysne] Joyjoue YIM pres [noey ,.‘Afayeunyoyuy, , 
‘addrryd pres ,.‘Aoq Aut ‘Jeo & 3e JOYS noX,, 
"Wf Suoje ponurjuoo pue ediduresp e 0} Juom voy) ‘AuosTeq oy 
JO Sulrel oy} pamoyjo} poorg Jo rey sy “3ST sw ur SumpAroaa 
SUIUBXS 0} o[qQe alom Ady} puke dwej e i8nolq juRAISGs VY 
,, Auoopeq 
oY} UO poojq S,sJ0y},, “joyea s sddriyg pres ,,‘3Is ‘ony sj, 


6PT VaadO SHL IO WOLNVHd FHL 


oy) pue epuNjOI sy) UseMJoq YfeMoprs sy) Suoye passed “yey 393 
yortq & 3uLeoM pue ‘yeo[d youlq 3iq e ul poddeim ams Vy 
‘QUIS OY) PIP USUIYDeOD IOYyIO SOIY} SY], ‘eas sy} UO 
pouTeUIdI ULWIYILOD sy], ‘UI]IOq oy) JO NO 303 9UO ON ‘AUseYD 
ap oddyiyg wnod 0} ‘oul] oy) JO peoy om ye ‘pue ‘TJoIOg 
eT 0} {sieg 0} poummjor Apdniqe pey oym ‘eyopreZ 0} ‘uonesn 
-soaut Areuruntjaid oy) ZuLMp poysi{qeise Joye] sem se ‘BUTsUOTAG 
SUILYZNOIG :SAaeLUED JOY}O IOI) 919M UT]IA9Q SITY} JO JWOIF UT “oIOM 
oy jreos Suoy oy) Aq uoppry AjasIe[ sem adey ssOYM UBUTTOvOS 
e Aq UoALIP pue sosIoy snoJosIA om) Aq UMBIP SBA J] “Opts 
EpUNIOI 9Y} UO saseLUed Jo ouT] oy} poutof smoputM pasojo Apysn 
S$}I JOAO UMBIP SUTELIND YIM UT[JOq JO PUY & YO[9,0 sUIU IV 
*ZUIUDAD 9} UT YOOIS,0 oUTU 
11 Asnq wiry doy sip [fe—(uren Aq Joaen you pynom Arp “Tren 
Tay) JJO Jsoys oy) MOIY) 03) ATeJOUTIT oy} ‘AoUOW ATessad0U OY} 
‘g8e33eq ‘SUOISIAOId ‘URWYSeOS oY) ‘oSeLeD oY) ‘sasJOy SUL, 
"yuourodo[a 
oy) Joy suoneredoid Zuryeur Aep opoym oy) juads [nory 
‘gouvmeoddesip $s ,dunSIIY> sJOJoq soynuTUT Moy B ‘vIodC at) 
ye SUIUOAD IY) [[} UTese [NoKY 99s JOU PIP oy ‘Jfasuty oddity 
Aq oyensiseul Surutwexs oY} 0} poqiiosap sem oUusdS SI], 


“ABEME SYTCM IH 
x3 : oddrytud ‘ahq-pooy, ’ ‘1 novoy 
_<jnok doys [],J j},uom nod 
‘ON,, “JOMSUB OU [IDS ,,ZNOA |] ‘YsIfooy SurpjAue Op },u0M 
nox (oy WIM °° * Burlaval oJ.nox,, “Iamsue oN ,.{}4SIU 
-O} SUIARS] 21.noX Zdn spew si put moX,, -addipiyg 
.. addyiyg ‘eAq-poon,, -ynovy 
(‘r9qOIQ 
siy 0} A10}S Ss SUNSLIYD poyeodor sey [NoeY yey} SMOYS SITY) 

_, SoOo}s Jsoys 
iay WM peosy nok pouim Ajayoduioo sey [us yey], jsnojn 
-OIPLI sn Suryeul o1,noA ‘qnory ‘ses nox,, -Aypos ‘addipiyd 

ce DAO] OURTUOI IOAO 
NO UIM 0} DAOT A[oyJOIG syoodxe oY JI UoYyEIsU Appears st 
JUNOD dy) Inq ‘JayIO YORo sOpe O} ples ae SI9Y}I0IG OM} OL, 
‘Ieye oY} 0} ,,ayJonsIey] MOU 9Y},, SuIpeo, WO, “JUNOSSTA 
au) ‘Jay}0Iq sTy yUOAoId 0} osn Ud oddI{IYg JUNOD suvoUT yeYyM 
Jopuom [jam Aeur suo ‘[nyomod-fe st ‘elodQ ou) ur ATjetoedsa 
‘QAO] DUIS “osTUOId eB daoy 0} [rey [JIM ApTurey sIy Jo Joquiowl 
B OWI} SIT OY} JOJ yey) WIOMsS sey AUseYD op oddrryg yNoD 


XNOAIT U0jSVS OSI 


SSPIOM OSoy} SuULS SUTISLIYD usyM XOq s,AuseyD 
op oddijiyg premo} pou) Ajsnonoidsuos Aey} puy ‘wed s,ayu 
-OndIV] UI sosessed uTeyI99 ye Ajuado poyiuis ‘eJZe DAO] S.JUNOD 
“SIA oY} JNOGe MOUY 0} poulre;o OYM ‘sIsO0seiodo IeNBal oy 

“yt Aq yosdn 
SEM pue AjI[SOY JIOy) posuss sYg “UMO Joy SAOQE Jej OS sseio 
jeioos & Woly URW Be ALew 0} pamdse SuTAey JO} Joy dAISIOJ JOU 
Pinos sousIpne oY) JO sJOquIOW poyexe asoyy, ‘woNdedal poo 
Jayyel & UDAIS Sem YS ‘oS8v}]s oy) UO poreodde ouNsIIYD USA, 
‘SUBJ PUTYOQ SULIOdSIYM Sso[PUD 0} SSTI SALT IJB}OIG 
$,JUNOD 9} JO sdUaSqe oY} pue ‘ponsiyUI ApeaId pouloos SuLIoujEs 
pipuslds yey) ul uswIOM oY], “poulsoucoUN pue salyjereo Anus 
-Iedde ‘ouoye yes oddymg yunod aleym xoq oy) pIeMo) poulN 
aJam Soko [TB osned0q ‘j99JJO sy poonpoid APueptas pey Zurum0w 
yey anbodzZ,'J Jo wuinjoo disso oy ul poystjqnd ust ou], 
"]j@ Way} 0} UMOUY sem 
oovy s,Auseys op saan JUNOD pue ‘a0vj pue oueU S,dU0AIOAD 
mouy Aoy) ‘AT[eID0s JayJO Yoo Juonbayy ATLessodou Jou pIp Aoy) 
ysnoyy, ‘Joyo yoea wIM pojurenboe [ye alam sjdood ssoyy 
“OISNU SAC] 0} 
posn om ‘A}OID0S B[QUUOTYSEJ JO SIOQUIOUI 99S IO JOOUI 0} UTeLIDO 
JSOW]E SEM UO SJOYM SUIOO] SUIMBIP BOM BIOdQ ay} Je Soxog 
“UMOUAUN ynq [fe BoM soonoeid Yyons ‘ysed oy} uy *xoq s,stnbreuwr 
oy} Joy pred sey sy s0UIS ‘op 0} JYBII yOopIod we sey oy se 
‘A[IWB STY YIM oseo ye SUNS JUeYOIOW yod e aes AeUl aM—}I 
jo uolssassod uny SuIAIs yoRnUOD e sey smbrew ay asneseq 
OG-pue-og sinbreyy JO Xoq 94) poled [HS st YoryM—og-pue-og 
sinbiey] JO xoq oy) ut ‘sXepeMon] ‘sIOUSIAIOJ. Jo ‘uaWssouIsng 
“SIOIOUBUTT YIM Woy) aeys JO ‘soxoq JOY} WAI JO pus] jou 
pip siaquiosqns ‘sAep ssoy} Ul ‘payuesaadas Ausorsruseu sem A390 
-Id0S SNBIOOISITY “‘poysInsunsip A[YsIy sem gousIpNe oy], “7sNDy 
SEM SUTUSAD Jey} pouLJoyied Buroq elodo oy} yey) pouoddey 17 
‘juaredde sui0d9q UOOS [[IM se ‘SUIyJAIOAS ynOge MoUy OU 
‘ysoys vIsdC Sy) SeM dINSIy ay) Jey) ‘JoyIeI ‘SAdT[Aq | ‘puUNOJ J9je] 
SBM Jey Jey} pue ‘SUTUSAD JotVO AIOAD pIp oy Se ‘ZUTUSAD Je} Jey 
do} & a10M [NORY SdUIS ‘jt BAdTPEq JOU Op ‘JaAdMOY ‘]T ‘AUSeYD op 
[Nowy JUNOSSTA SBM SINSIJ OU} JY) popnjouod UONeSHSoAUI Oy, 
‘pIOM B pres Suravy ynouyM AeMe 
JUOM JI US} puke ‘UBWIYSeOD oY} USY) ‘sasIoy 94} payovoldde 
I “WOHUS}e TeIsods YITA UT]IOQg SY} ye YOO] 0} pouloas i] ‘soseuEs 


TST VaddO FHL JO WOLNVHd SHL 


0} SSUIM 9Y} WoO poysns sjdoog “souSsIpne oy) SuOUTE se [fam se 
aSe}s oy) uo ‘yeod eB 0} asos A[pider uonENsy *Ayrxapdiod Jo syoo] 
posueyoxo sioyeyoods oy, 430e]d Use) pey opoeITU Jo pUTy wy AA 
{Joy JO sWO090q peY JY AA jy) JosUO] OU seM OUTISUYD ng 
‘ulese poyYsi] seA O8vIS OY) AOJoq astidins Ul WTe[OKa 
0} owt) pey Ajareq sioyeyoods oy) yey) AppoInb os JaAO seM J 
‘SsoUyiep oJ posunyd ATUoppns sem o8e}s oY} yey} Uy) sea I] 


j1Sad 0] aays yum ssuo] jiaids Kp 


-7" ee KID OUTAIP OY} poisyyN suUNsUYD ‘sIoplnoys aryeq Joy 
Joao Ayasoo] Sursuey Wey Joy Jo AIo[s oy ul podopoaus ‘Apuap 
-Je ZUIAROY WOSOg Joy pue poydjonsyno sue Joy WM ‘puy 


"* "Dp ssajq uaavay ul ‘jasuy 


‘[Nowy sem i “Joy WIM 
yes oy) SUIARZT aJOM oy JI Se ‘oUNSLIYD Suroey dn poojs Joye 
-ouptydure oy} Jo o[pprw oy) UI UeUT eB [feo UeUNYIodns Jey) IV 
‘ssurm pey Adu} yey) 
yoy ye Aoy) pue ‘Jay WIM sousIpNe SuLaAInb sfoym ay) Yoo) sys 
‘Te SY) OJUT SLI pue sjasue oy} SYOAUT 0} UBsaq oYs UdYM ‘joe 
\Se] OY) Ul ‘papssdons sys pue ‘aJojoq oUOp pey sys SuIyAIOAS 
ssedims 0} pol) syg “[Nos Jay [fe WIM sues sys ‘UO Udy} WO] 
‘ure3e yduinLy plnos sys yey) OS SUTyPATIAD J08IOJ OY 
‘IO POARS JEU], “Jay ye JOOUS BYO[IVD MES SYS IYSNoWY eYg [PAU 
JOY PoZIUZooel pUe UOTOWWIODS JOJ ssned Mou yey) ye dn paxoo] 
QUIISIIYD Joog “souRQUS [eUORSUeS B SEM J ‘Ode}S JY} SUTORy 
SOX0q 9) JO 9UO OJUT soURIIUS Joy OpeUl eYOTIeED ust ysnf puy 
‘slV@g Ul JoosVd Jay popus ATLeIodula; pey yey) Yeolo 
OLIOISTY OY} 3108 WU) JO pUS Jy) 7B BYO[IED 0} pousddey pey yeyn 
polsquIsUIel sousIpNe oy], *J0e UpIeS ou sem YSTyM ‘Oe ay} JO 
pus oY} [[9 INO Pjoy pPrnos ays JI pue ‘yYOIs sem ays JI palopuom 
Buoy snjoreD °° * ‘oydonsejeo & 10; Zurpeay sem oyg “SulTquien 
Sem SYS “soURINsse-jjas Joy [je surso, A[pidexs sem suNsLIYyS) 
‘ZurmppAIoa9 wor Aeme Jey oq 0) poseodde op {11 38 SUTyOo] ay seM 
ynq {a3v}s oy} UO poxty alam SoA SIP] “WIY 0} USAIS UONUAe OY} 
jo oxemeun powsos oddi[iyg ‘puey sty uo SuT)saI UTYS STY WIAA 


{81 auDU Siy JDYM ‘jsva] JD ‘40 ‘ajqou St ay ff 
{aul p SSadppD IYI aY S1 OYM ‘MOUY IN pjnod ['YsiM J 


XNOAIT UOJSV®) CSI 


«<j MOY SMOUY OUO OU pue ‘soXa INO alOjoq paystuRA 
sey sve SUNISLIYD onseojjoo InCQ ‘pousddey ysnf sey Sunotnbsip 
Ajdoop pue a[qipaiour Surmpouwos ‘uourapuas pue sorpe’y,, ‘ATpes 
pue Ajoaeis poounouue pue uinrpod s,Jo}onpuoo eNsaysio oy 
0} dn poddajs eyuo.g snjored “A[Mo[s asor ureyMd oy) ATTeULT 

.. poreeddesip oys usym ysnf yep yUOM aBe}s OY) JeUp JOR] OU} 
Aq poaoid s,jeyy, “aoueape ut pouueyd ‘uononpgqe ue sem J],, 
<, SUIT) ISM OY) JOJ SurAN sem yuoU 
-OSBULU MOU OY} VY} JOAJJo OBeEIS OWOS JO UITOIA oy) U90q CARY 
Avul [113 Jood oy, yor Zur83iw oy) oyut dn porjnd sem ous,, 
<< Joopden e Yysnosy} [T2J aYS,, 
‘poucddey pey ssump Moy jo uoneuejdxs ue pey ouoki0Aq 
"90U0 3 SULIT) [Te ‘qnqqny s]qequIOsopuT Ue UT yOUODUNOUUR Ue 
Joj poylem sousipne oy], ‘souRnUS ase}syorq oy) preMo} poLLMyY 
SIoqlIosqns oY} ‘pasJomo] SUIOG se UTeYIND oY) SITY “pue ‘xoq 
sty wor poreoddesip oddiiyg ‘ooejd sry yoy Apyomb jnory 
‘Jodedsmou s ,Surusjour yey} ur powodar 
disso3 Jo Wo} oy} WIM UoNOUU0D sUIOs oALY Ws souUaI 
-IND90 JENSUIS yey} JI PolopuoM pue ‘{noeY Je pue ‘JUNOD oy 
3e ‘o8eIs oY} J poyxoo] s[doag *xoq sty ut dn poojs pey oddipug 
JUNOD “Ino pollo pey [nowy ‘IoyeoyyYydure ayy ul Surpueys [INS 
‘USABOY UT 4S9J 0} ‘[nos pue 
Apog ‘Aeme Joy Surqe) Aq vajd yuasay 104 poromsue oAey JYsTU 
Josue ue JI JapuoM sUO syeUT 0} YSNOUD seM I {SULIE s.eIUOT sn] 
Ore.) WOT pue “sioje}eds oNsEIsNIVUD JO spuesnoY) Wor, AeMe 
Jay poysjeus pey Aloolos yey, {ou03 ounsuYD pey 04M, 
‘JOpIOSIP Jars Ul pojdno\Ur sem soUBULIOJIed oY], “aI0JOq 
SJUSWIOW Maj eB ATUO ZUISUIS USeq peY SUNSHIYD soy sovjd omy 


ect VaddO FHL JO WOLNVHd SHL 


PST» 


“9u03 alam Ady) ‘poutaoUu0d sem 9STO 
QUOAIOAD Se Ie] se SuOsvar AUB JO} POqIMSTP aq 0} JOU aJOM Ao) 
yey) SJOPIO USAIS pey Ady} UOISsTULIDUT ySe] UY SuLING ‘sJoseueu! 

OM) oY} 0} SuLIaJo1 ATpayqnopun sem oy pue ‘AuIgY ayods Og 
_. SAa¥ ot} Yoo) Ast asned0q ‘JNO puly 0} ABM OU S,aITP Ing “SOLO 

ou) yay aa,Aom oqgheyy “Jomsue }.upip Aoyy yng ‘poyoouy J,, 
“UOMESIOAUOD ItOy) UO porte Asay) ‘sanedoid snowous sulos 
puryoq ‘ary, ‘oSuNo] ,sJsoURpP BY) 0} SuIped] JOpLUOS peosq sp 
pue odv}s oy) Us0MI0g OSessed B JO JOUIOD SU 0} UMBIPYIM peYy 
Aayy, ‘Azejorses oy) ‘AWpY pue ‘JOJeINSTUTUIPe 94} “IOIOIOWW] 
‘Jo}SeUl SNIOYD sy) ‘foUqey :samjsos SuLedsap YM ‘sad10A 

AMO] Ul SUTYTE} Bom UO saTy} ‘PMOID snHoN}|NUIN) Jey) Uy 
‘quopiooe ue JO Bopl oy} INO poyns pey sioopdeN oy pue 

JOO]} sy} JO UONVUTUIEXS OUTS ATTeIOadsa ‘“SUTYSNLT aM SUIOS 

«J 8043 ou) sem II ‘ON,, 

celJE PIP OYA GUO BY} S,9Y4g jENOPED S,alsy} “YV,, 

«{FOMJOI STY SVM II ‘ON,, 

ceil pIp AuseyD ap JuNodstA,, 

«.iPoyonpge sem syf,, 

..gJ0y 0} poucddey yeyM,, 
‘IayjO yoes ZuIpsof ‘Sunnoys ‘suruonsanb [ye aam 
Aoyj—ssoquiosqns ‘sIaquioul snsoys ‘selresoumnuiodns ‘sraouep 
‘spueyose}s ‘sJoSuIg “93e)S OY} POpeAUl Pe ONOYHL OLLOVHD V 


ulg Ajazes 
v JO JOLARYag Ie[NSUIS sy] 


St 


-SeULU OU], :Woy) pozAyered yey) JopIo ue poatooal pey Aoy} ng 

‘wayed Burleq Jo pasnooe oq A[I0IBDS P[NOd JOTOIaJA, puke poqeH 
., UMOp opisdn poumn,, sem elodg sfOUM oy} OTTYAK 
JOUIOS B UI porppny Aypwyeo oym , Sdosy]ru,, ssoy) Jsurese BUI 

-Joynul ‘snszys Aigue ue yA Aeme poyem Joseueul o3ejs OU], 
: ,, MATBsstuuuIO0S 

OY} JOJ We Sjo] ‘MOU PUY “343 3yINb oom NOA ‘ou ‘ON,,. 
-.G]2U) Op 0} 3UOIM J SBAA “URZIO adid oI) 
JO ssodar OY} JO JUOI Ul URWON e pojsod | pue sjonuos 3unUsTT 
oy} 0} UMOP O3 0} SI SUD OU SIOPIO dAvS [ °° * ‘OO },UaTe 
SIOSEULU OY} pUY ‘II jNOQe yO pUTJ 0} SAeY OM pUe ‘pozTURsIO 
pue pouuvld sem yy jjfesiou Aq [je Jeoddesip },upip jus yey) 
MOUY NOX,, ‘poynoys Joseuewl oBev}s Oy} , .jNOA Surppo} wy ‘Malo 

BUNYSIT SU} WOI 9UO ON jsJodjoy sty Jou WepoNey] JOUIION,, 
..Gsadjay sty ynoge yeyAA ynq,, 

‘uoyeys ‘poyeodal Io1sIojy ,,“aloymAue puNoy; aq },Ued Teponey, , 
‘eIadO ou} JO o8e}s OY) UO TIM 3e IYSIU 

pue Aep posuodsip oy ‘Joys MaIo-3uNYsI] oy) SeM ITejONe 
..opueisiopun noA 
‘oroyMAUR PUNOJ oq },UBd ITe[oNe| puy ‘o0U0 je [Te yep yum 
93e}S SY} MOY SN ][][9} pnos Apoqowios yey} ‘uesio odid oy} ye sem 
Apoqgoulos jt oqAeul yng,, “Itey A[nsun sty yYsnoIy) spuey sty sul 

-ysnd A[porzuoly ‘Ioseueul o3e}s ou} porfdal . ‘JOU aSINOD jo,, 

<.Gooy} ST ‘Jey Noqe Op Ud | SUIOU s dIDILL,, 

. jAPOQON {puejysropun nod og jApoqou Mes |,, 

<< 908 NOK pip JeyM puy {YO,, 

;, a10y} UMOP UOT Apealye 3A,],, 

¢. SOY $}98 PIO [1 ION,, 

< jA[@yeIPOWUIT UeZIO odid oy} 0} UMOP O38 ysNUI NOA Avs | puy,, 
(99S [OM 
‘QI9Y SOY USYAA “WIT JOJ JIS 9A,J,, ‘POIepIap IOIOIAY ,,‘SOUWIOD 

PloyjIAy ATessTUwMUIO[ [[ ZurmpAue Jesy Jo op 0} JURA 3, UOP |,, 
, JIT INSISUOPY ‘Popoou o1,noX Zasoy Surop 

OM} NOA ae JY AA { BUTWIOD NOA are ‘IDIOIOIAY MSIsuO| ‘TT2AA,, 

“‘POALLIe JOseUeUI 93¥}S OY) USU 

‘AeMe uel pue ‘Au9y pres ,.‘aoy) youq 08 I], I,, 
"AUIQY poyse 

IODIOI_ _,,(IOop oy) YsnoMp) ‘Wt ynoqe Woy [][9} Nod piq,, 
‘[OLIqey pres , jAep AJoao suoddey 

JEU) SUTPOWIOS },USI O3e}S OY) Wo SuLIeoddesip Josuls v 3ng,, 


ScT VdaidO AHL JO WOLNVHd dHL 


yUM,, ‘poyse AWOY ..{,duTyJAIOAS, Aq uvoU oy Soop 1eUM,, 
“Yey oy puy 
_.jO88 SUOT ZUTYJAIDAS JNOGeE P[O} Ud0q SALY P[NnoM 
sorjod oy} ‘oul 0} pousjsi] pey ouoAue Jy jAeMAUe Z3uUIOd W,],, 
"pesy sty YOOYS JY] NG 
. JOAdoTs sty dn youn suo 
uey} SJOUI sey “DH ‘OC SUL jATessaoou S.J asNnedaq SOIJJO JIOY) UT 
BUIARIS 31, AdY} OQARIY jJOIOIOY ‘SUIOp 31,noA yeYM JO FUIYL,, 
‘wy poddojs ‘usajs puke snonios Alaa ATUoppns ‘poriqey 
‘paploop oy , ,jJJeSAW Woy) Iajye 3uIOd UL.],, 
‘JOSUOT OU JOSUTY UTeTSOI 
p[noo oy Ayjeuly ‘poreadde jou pey [Ns sJoseueur oy) pue possed 
SOMUTU OY} se SuIMOIS AyTIqisuodsal sIy YO} OF{ “SuIMJoU pres 
oy ‘JUdTIS 9q 0} WIY SUTUONOU! [atIqey Uses SurAey ‘yng ‘joIDOS 
B JO J[OSWIY UspInqun 0} Jnoge pouUlses pue PoYsIs IOIOIBW 
‘Ay[nyurepsip poysne] Aug y 
«cD OM 
Aq podeid you} Joyjoue s.y,, ‘pasodstym joliqeg ATuoppns 
_ {ACM yey) poyean 
Suldq 0} posn OU Wy j}ey) Oy] UO O8 },UeD 3,, :aInseatdsip 
sty possoidxo oy pue ‘posead jou sem Away ,,“Azelo 3ur03 
oe slaseueul INQ ‘[eINjeuuN si Buy} sfoym oy], jAxodode jo 
pop savy p,oy ‘30ds ay} UO SU USAIZ USdEq },UpeY oy JI Jeu} YU) 
J ‘uid Ajoyes sty yng SurpjAue ynoqe Suryuiy) }.UseM oH ‘YNOU 
oy) ye Suluvoy sem OF jj} AN Nod Udds dARY O} ST P.I,, 
cog 7 BRBG DUNSIIYD, ‘pres savy noX },upfnos AyM,, 
.ofE CARY NOA aIOy) puy js0eJ 
AULI UI JOOP 9Y) PoUuUE]S UTUIeYOUOPY pue ‘UITY 0} 3 oAeS pue Ud 
Ajayes & yim dn Zuruuni sures—sZun] sty Jo do} oy) ye SuLeO! 
SUM SY—UITY preoy oym AOg s01JJo UY .jMou 34s ‘uId Ajazes 
B OW 39H juld Ajoyes y, ‘pres oy jng ‘o3v}s oy) UO pouoddey pey 
JQRAT[IQUN SUTYJOWIOS JU} WY [fo} 0) pow) [ .jouoye oul sARo] 
UL, "PHeS ] ‘ON, .(uid Ajozes we oavYy NOA OG, (aU 3 PayoA 
oy YM MOUY NOA Op puL ‘UI PJOM B 393 1, Up{ROD | ‘ou WY O} 
BUIOS SEM OY FYSNOW | “pesy sty Jo yao Sursnq arom soXo SIP,, 
‘polomsue AWIdy .,‘J0op oy) pouedo Ajjeuly uruzeyouoy,, 
‘JOTSIO|A POYSe , {VIO} 0} Hye) NOA PIP “TOAA,, 
"JUSULApTIMaq JO YOO] e 
pey o0ej SI ‘UoNIpodxe Mou SITY WOl yorq ouIeD sy MOU puYy 
"SSODONS OU YIM ‘IOPIO Jey} DL[OIA 0} Poly pey 
AUIDY “p]JOM dy} UI UOSvaI Aue JO} poqINsIp 9q 0} JOU 310M SIO 


XNOAFT U0JSVS) 9ST 


preMmo} SUTyeM sem J USYA ‘J0e Uopsles oy} JoIe UOISSTULIO;UT 
oy} suLinp ‘esuno] sy} SpIsjInG :oW 0} sTy) UTeTdxa ued nod 
oqAeUl OS ‘[alIQey ‘sIoSeueU oY) JO PUSLI osO[D & aI,noOZ,, 
‘ospnt 
B SB SNOLIOs SUTYOO, ‘pojssjoid jaLiqey ,,‘surjof jou wWZ,],, 
<i OUgey “It mnoge syof 3,u0q,, 
«H2U} PIP YysIyAvso ATUO 3YyBnoy} | ~premyorq 
SuyeM OM sioseueul MO yey) pooyou nox {premyorg,, 
~ ¢{PIBMyorqg 
yyem Aoy} puy ‘own ynoqe sjy “Wf Wupe nod peys uL.],, 
./PPO ATuTeVOo s jeyL {Woy} 
yono}) suoXue 39] 3,upfnom Asay) yeu} pooyou nox ZATeOY,, 
., WOU} YOno} suoAue jo] },.u0OM Ay],, 
<.<GUIOY) Iau SWIOD sUOAUP JQ] 3,U0OM ASU {IeUAA,, 
,, UIdY} Jesu dUIOD 
suoAue 39] 1,U0M At} MON {SIIOY} JO PIURUT MOU SIU) S JEU AA,, 
:ponunuos AUSy “JoyeUI OU} UT amie 
ou pey oy yeu} eopT oy} AZAUOD.0} JUROUT A[SNOTAQO oINysa3 & ‘TTeT 
ow }2]| pue SULIE sTy postel Jouqey ‘oaIssedult oovy sty WIM 
¢¢ PUBISIOPUN 7 UOP J,, 
<< USN] 1, UpIp OYM souO ATUO oY} 
oJoM NOA pue jdJ0y} aIOM JOIOIeWy puke nox jprp Aey} yeyM asyo 
QuOAUL UY} 10}9Q MOUY NOX {Wy} WIM JoyeUl oy) S.7eUAA,, 
‘uoIssaidxa popurltureydunts ysour sty 
YIM poyse fouqey ,,{SloseueW INO YIM JoyeU OY) S.JeUA,, 
,,jSJoseULU INO ye SuNUIOd oJaM sJoqgiIoOsqns 
oy) [je pue Ja}seur snsoys sy], {pesopo saXa sity doy aeplog 
B’] Op Jopessequiy yey} puy {SUIJAUP 99S 3, UpIp ‘TeQUaD IpPeIZ_D 
oy) JO Joseueul oy) ‘osiqeieg INsIsuOWY Jey} pUY jUISY) 90S 
7,UpIp J yUIIB nod og j},UpIp oyM oUO ATUO at} O1,NOA UdT],, 
“soueAouue UIA ples [oligeyy ,,“s0n0u 1,UpIp J,, 
«| SOHBUNT 
OY] Zuyoe oJom ulwWIeyoUO|Y pue. preyoTy,, ‘poyetodsexo 
‘AUIDY ples ,,“oioy JYSH “WYsTUO} UOIssTULSJUT oY) SuLINC,, 
,, ues NoA JeYM MOUY },UOP | {Jey yNoge NOA |]9],, 
‘ysnqjno AyTuIsesuN sy 
Aq polzznd 9q 0} Sulpusjoid ‘orejs yuRTq Be AW y oAeS JoLIqey 
<{AZeIO ‘sox jAZBIO 
SUIOS [Je O1,NOA Jey) NOYS 0} SW UBM },UOP NOA JI } JNOQe ow 
[19 19130q p,noA ‘TTOAA {00} I UO UT O1,nOA suBoU JeuJ—]oLIGeH 
‘IOMSUL },UOP NOX {9d1[0d st} 0} plo} U90q SABY P[NOM Je} II ST 


LSI VaedO AHL JO WOLNVHd 4H 


"yeog JO yno 
‘POALUE JOJO ‘UOTVSIOAUOD Ie[NSuIs yey) UT yuIod sIy) IV 

ce e{S]@Ipunoos sy], (SfospuNods ou} ‘YO, :spIOM ssoy) 

yeay Ady], {90"JO yey} Jo Joop sy} ysed 08 Aoy) USYM JeoYy s[dood 
yey MOUY Nod op pure ‘dd1JJO 9Y} Ul Jay Poyxdo] NOA 3nq ‘ON,, 
..gJoy 378 OM YUIY) NoA OG,, 

_ MID oulepepy uses sey ou OU yng ‘Uses U90q 

SARY JOOIO, pue NOA ‘UdY} OUI “Sd1JJO S,JOIDIBJA] 0} ATED ourep 
“BIN PUe IOIOIOAY POMOT[OJ NOA yey) [JOM OS JI PoonouU nod, 
"Pougey pres , “yey 9O1}0U },UpPIp J, 

. ¢Aimy years v ul Aeme Jay poy pue puey 
ay) Aq Joy yoo) Jaap] ‘Oe sIYM OMIT B osuUNO] oy) 0} UMOP 
oureo ATID ourepeyy uoyM ‘AYM OUT [[9} NOA UBD jATTear ‘soX,, 

« GATTROY, , 
<. J4stu0} pareod 
-desip AjUoppns s,oym 2U0 ATUO OU} },UST oBeq SUTISLIYD,, 
. GSSUI} UM, 
. JOJ ajqisuodsar Apred oye J91DJoPY pue NoA yey) 
o1oy Surucddey are ssury ‘Jouqey ‘Weuls oq 0} AN) },U0q,, 
‘Wed S$ J 
-LIQe 0} asopo poues] pue ‘sdi] sty pousIYysN ‘popMmods off “OUIT) 
snoies B Yyons ye ayof AljIs B YONs JesYy 0} posenNo sem AWOY 
"MOTJOTAUOD JNOYIIM pojsod 
-8ns joliqey ,,‘aIn3ij jJorfeq eB SuIsIesyor som Aoy) aqgAeyy,, 
_,GSUBOW JEU} [Te YAN OUT [[9} NOA ued ‘AZEIO JOU 
91, A0u) J] jpremyorq—premyoeq ‘Jey YI] WsvosTe}s UONENsTUTWUpeE 
oy} 0} JUaM YJOg Ady) puy j00} premyoeq AeMe poyfem sy 
pue ‘preyory puryoq punoze pour ATyoinb urueysuoyy puy,, 
6 <GPIOEMAC G, > 
., premyoerq Aeme 
poyea pue ‘WIIYy Jo JOT, Ul SUO OU Sem JJOy) YSNOY} UsA9 pomoq 
‘punosze pouin) of jj{osInoA wy MES NOX {Op sy pip 1eYAA,), 
GOP PreYyorY Pip yey puy jsurpunojsy,, 
c¢ ¢{PIVYORY INstsuop] Yono} },uop oseojd ‘1s 
‘gseoig, ‘A[pno] Aes wy preoy oAey Jsnu nod pue ‘UWSY} UseMI0q 
days ulmeyoUO|y USS DALY ISNU NOA ‘preYoTY preMo} poyen 
Osje sLoplog ey] op Jopessequry uoYyM ‘I9je[ OPI] & puy,, 
«cf O1QIPSIOUT,, 
_ gonserd ou) avy [ yup Aoyy oq ,jwry yono} 
},UOp ‘Op NOA JoAazeEy A jABME OD jABMB OD, ‘OU 0} parodsTyM 
Appoinb uruseyouopy ‘sty oyeys 0} puey Aur yno surpjoy ‘preyory 


XNOLF] U0jSVS) SSI 


‘AUSBYZ) Op [NOVY JUNODSTA Sem OH 
“wy Joy Auos yoy Ajoyerpourut Ady) yey} VOVJ [NJMOLOS & YONs 
YIM ue SUNOA B Udds JOU pRY Ady} JI YSN, Way) spew savy ATG 
-egold ptnom uonsanb stu} ‘uonensIs oy) Jo AWARIS oy) apIdsaq 
ccGSt BBG 
SUIJSTIIUZ) SIOUM SUI [][9} NOA ued ‘UdWAYUDS ‘OUI oSNdXd,, 
“Speoy JOY} WIN) WIS) JO 9914) oY) OpeUl soIOA B ATUSppns 
‘Suueppnys 
abe JOU pynod OYM ‘[aLIQeyH pemuLMuU , josueNng josuens,, 
"AUIDY POLIO ,.jutd Ajozes oyL,, 
‘SuIpjoy sem 
oy JEM Je Poyoo] [olqey pue Auy ‘puey sm pousdo Isa 
., puey Au ut sty 8unynd 19\Je ‘Joop du} paso[d sy Udy], ,jJ0y 
JO} pooyH, {polemsue oy JeyM MOUY NOA OG ,pa}onpqe useq sey 
ove sUTNSsIIY., ‘pres [ ,jjuem nod op Jey, ‘oul poyse off ‘oTed 
AJOA SPM OP “UIMIBYOUOJ] MPS | pue pousdo Joop sy], ‘sda}s}00} 
presy | , joy ‘OW! SI] jJOOp ay) UadH jsnores AIOA S.jJ, ‘UWIOU) 
0} paynoys J,, ‘A[MWOO[s pres oy ,,‘JOAO UP) SSIOM S.j}I ALON,, 


6ST Vdaad0O SHI dO WOLNVHd 4HL 


O9T - : | 
.dUNSUYD jouNsiys,, 
_ [SUOAIOAD. 0} USPPIGIOF S19M 
aSeys ou MOTO Po] ey) SITe}s ou) Mou puy “PpoAoul U90q SAR. 0} 
JADU Pouoas AY} JEU) AJIPI[OS Jo Yoo] & YOns Uo-usyE} pey AY. 
‘g[qeinwu pauses Aoy} :JYyZtuU0} sso~UONOU UeY) aOUI aIOM 
Spleoq aSOY}—SIE][I9 Oy) JO PIOA snorsiposd oy) OUT BuTOYsO - 
spunos I1ouy juss pue sdojs}00} sty. YJeoUDG. Poyeord jeyY sprog. 
oy) ‘UITY MOP MOU AIisap sty [Je Yor premoy ssXqe oy} sos WY. 
39]. 0) Ajisea Os apise prs A}Leurpso yey} aja"ISqO spISeIy. OY], 
{WITY 0} Poso]d [Te SIaMm soouRQUD ssOYM ssouyep 
jo qd yeu) out ‘UMOp ‘UMOP ‘UMOP OF P[NOd oy. ATUO J] ‘UeUIpeUT. 
® Oy] 99e}S OY) JOAO palopueM of] “‘Pousj}si[ puke UMOP. poued] fH] 
"WUIY WO Joy poyeredas yeu} spreog J[I3eIZ SY} YSNOIY) SOLID oY 
eay 0} pouloes ay pUy ‘poyeodar oy ,,jOUNSHYD jouNsuyD,, 
"UdAPROY JO sjasue 
OU] 0} JjasJay posajjo pey sys YoOIyM UI pnosYys 3}1yM oy} SULTEOM 
‘UOIJE}[eXe SUTAIP Joy Woy Suoamnb [Hs sem oys o[TyM ‘Aoid 
S$} SuIALIVS [eUITUE pI ®& OXI] Joy poled pey Jojsuoul oy) YOM 
ovur ssXqe yep oy} WOJJ WITY 0} NO ZulTTeD Useq SARY }SNU oYs 
se Joy Sule ‘1YyZneysIp ‘pouvoul oy , ,joUNsUYyD jsuNsuyD,, 
“SAO] 
pue sedsap jo Azualj & Ul.‘o8e}S SY 0} poysNI jnoey puy 
"UOTUTWOp STY PoYyst[quise AyfesIfoqeIp pey oy soyM BIodC 
oy} JO Weal yey} UI ISN JO jos oy) Jo JoMOd jemeurodns 
JSOW]e Oy} Noge qnop Aur pey JosUO] OU 9H “YL osnd0e 0} sem 
JYSNoy} Is s,[NoeY ‘aouesleoddesip OLLSVINVA S.ANILSIYHD YWaLAY 


,PUYSWYD jauyswyD,, 


OT 


| jisad on Bays YIM s8uoy naids | «Ww 
 . “p ssaiq uaavay ut ‘jasuy 


:3UOS ‘SUIAIP. Joy JO JUOUTYSTMOU JeEnTIds om) 
{NOs ‘OTUOWAp yey). UsAIZ oYs pey ‘AdJoW Jo joe JeuTy B UT ‘AU 
,uesy S.Jajsuowl oy) IyIM:pue ‘oydonseyeo Surusjeamy) oy) WIM 
poAo} oys: pey AGA {3uo] os pokejap ays pey AYAA jJOU00S sAvoT 
0} SUTI[IM Useq peYy sys ATUO J] ‘WY YIM podoja sys UsyM Jeo 
0} papusur pey sgouely [nyNNeDQ sty ey) somo] ou ‘amMpUMY 
dy) JOAO parayeos ‘messy Woy sprfoXo sty pouting ses) JONIG 
oe  /SUNSOYD joupsyy,, 
"WOOI SUISSoIp 
$,SUTISIIYD 0} Wel oY SB s}ySNOY) janis s,[noeY JOod alam yons 
| “peajsur SUTISIIYD IsuTeSe powmM) pue poy 
pey oy ‘popunom usaq Suraey ‘nq ‘[noey Jsurese UOTOR SAISIDOp 
axe} 0} popusjyur Ajqeqoad pey ox] “LYS oy} 0) dn Aem oup [ye adid 
“UleIp & QUIT]D pjnoo—sMouy sUOAIOAO se ‘UTeSeE—OYM ‘S}OTAUOD 
JO syed oy] ‘odidureip oy Jo suvow Aq podeoso pey Iojsuowl 
SUL (WY poyry pey.oy Ayuo Jy [yl 3e Joys pey Ayer oy ‘sox 
(‘14310 ye sof syed oARy 
Inq IYsITAEp ur sofa s,31QquI SAY 0} Jeodde sourqye suIOs ‘sMOUy 
QUOAIOAD sev ‘puYy) ‘soko S,Jeo JO SIe}S YI] OUTYS pue ssouyEp 
UI SJeEIp ey) sofa ueUINY ATeuTpsoRNXa ‘asINod Jo ‘are a0], 
j Uo} 
Aonsap 0} a[qe ussq pey joysid sty Ajuo Jy “Auoojeq sty uo 
poreodde pey 3ey) siejs uopjos oy} jo ulese yySnoy) jnoey 
jPOWOOp sem sUTISIIYD ‘spuey [nyzamod sry 
Uy “SuToU ye doys prnom sy ‘apud Ayoy sty 0} MOTG Jey) JOY 
jesusacl Surye) sem oy MOU puYy “WY peAenog pey suNsTIyD 
ye} pouses[ pue xo1OS Jay} poloaoostp A[SNOIAGO pey YY 
‘uIeviq poysos 
-U0d S,[NOBY Ysnosy) SuMMYSI] oy] poyseyy s}ySnoy snoopy] 
< CUICSIQG 
JOY S.JoSUOW oY} Weoueq JOMIOY suUTWTPSYMIOAO Jo JUOUIOUI 
B UI polp Nod sAeH{ jJomsue },UOp NOX jouNsuYD jounsuyD,, 
‘aye, punolssJopun ysiyyjoy 
94} SULOO]I9AO WooIpeq oddiptyg-sno’] oy} 0} ‘usp afqeuTMOge 
STY 0} SUNSUYD yWaoouUT ‘100d posseip savy ysnuI yu ‘wy 
0} AJUO UMOUY sasessed snowejsXul ‘yep ZuoTe Ysep pM & UT 
“WIY poylosep pey Ajlues s.90uely Jood ou) 1YSnow} 
Ady], “Wry Jo uny Suryeur ‘SurySney ‘opise wry poysnd ajdoog 


T9T VaadO FHL JO WOLNVHd dHL 


MBS [NOVY pue 9de}S dy) UO PIesYy sem qnqqny MoU e Udy} JsN¢ 
‘poysney Aoy) puy 
“poyse 
oy ,.Zoeeq SUNSLIYD uses NOA oARY ‘USWOpUAS ‘OUI OsNdXy,, 
‘usu Jo dnoid ev poyoeoidde op ‘punojy useq pey suNsUYyD 
agkey ‘Apuspora Surpunod yeoy sry yim ‘sunued ‘poddoys oH 
7 "odes oy) JO ISI] IYSLIQ oy} UT yoRq 
J[esuy punoy pue surpying oy) Jo wed sAHeQsIuTUIpe s[OYM st} 
yZnomp yuom ‘sieys UMOp pue dn Ue oF “OS¥I YIM BUIMOTIOG 
‘Keme poly fnoey jsursney, yo ysinq sys jpoysne, ays 
—  g9QHOS any oy) 0} UdEq JOAO NOA DALY 
jaqldos ony oy LowWepeUl ‘OqUINg ony ot) ynNoge JeYyM puy,, 
_, d19Y] W99Q IOADU 9A,J—II 0} Spes] oJes YOryM 
MOUY 7, UOp | Ing ‘Is ‘eJodO sy} JopuN sy] & Salou) MOUY J,, 
<< BIEdQ 
ou} Jopun ‘oyP] puNnoIZ1apun oy) ‘oye] Oy) :MOUY NOX {dL SY} O} 
sped] pue SqLIOg ony oY} Sedv} JEU} ‘sIeq UO! ‘sIeq Jo opeul 983 
B ‘9383 & PUTJ 0} MOY OU []9} NOA ued ‘owWepeUl ‘SUI OSNOXq,, 
"9SIOIOUOD JY} 0} JUOM IH 
"++ pre Aumoo 
UOHeNSIUTUIpe sy} 0} a3e3 oy} ATUO sem J Ing j9}ed [essO[OD 
® pue ‘sIeq a3ny oJom aloy) ‘YY “SUIpP[Ing oy} puNnore JUuOM O}{ 
jSOUdTIS JUAA “POUdISI] OF{ joy} UI sem YW Yep MOP ‘sieq 
oy} usomjoq A[ssoqdjay poyoo] oH {MOPUIM poarieq iy) 1 
SEM IO {SIOYIO esOy} WW seM IO {poyweEM sy souo oy} Ao) 
219M ‘Sieq UO punoy oH ‘ssuTUOdO Joy SuIyoIees ‘spueYy 
ZUI[QUION IJIM Souo}s SHULTIZ oy} I[9J OY ‘OpIs}No sem oy WOU AA 
‘KemAue oquidg any 9) 0} 08 0} poploap 
oy yng ‘xoq oy} UI JosUOT OU sem Ady BIq oy} Jey puNoJ oy 
‘ABUISIP SITY OL [Jey Noge WY Plo) pey IUHSUYD “sax “equos 
ony ou} 0} Dye] oy) Wor APoop Suripeal osessed punosssopun ue 
‘QqLIog ony oy} 0jUO Zuruedo o7e3 v :poroquioUteI oy ATUappNs 
"°° *SDJOAA 
poXaqo yey} syoofgo ynoge soLio}s pjo} useq pey sy pooypTiyS 
SIY Ul ‘SPJOM uTeIZ0 yeods 0) sem popsou sem JeYM oQAvUT 
‘JOM JO pury yey} WIM ssojasn oom suonoe sqkep “YY 
Ajuo poeXaqgo sour oy) ApuoptAs ‘urea ur podois pue poysnd 
oH ‘uUleWwop AMopeYs Sy OUI UMOP O38 SUTISIIYD 39] 0} 
1y3Tu duo pousdo pry yey) JOM 31q oy) JOAO spueY sty PpoAoul 
AjIsumjo [Novy ‘s}]NsUT pue ‘syYVO ‘sqos JO [[NJ JeOIy) SI ITA 


xNOda] U04SDE) ZOL 


‘porvoddesip 
pue ‘Aeme poyem ‘pamog oy ‘uOTIUSAIOJUT snoLIajsAW sIy 
JO} UOs¥aI SY} WIY Yse 0} INOGe sem [nORY poystuojse oy) se 3snf 
‘uoy) pue ‘UOHAIDsIP SuIpuoUOSAL oINj}sod sty poSuocfold ay] 

jUeIstog ot} 
—jey ueyyense ue Suieom ‘soko usels-opel IM uew AuyIEMs 
8 JO sdij oy} JO UOJ UI MOU seM JOp[Noys sty UC UMOP SUIOD pey 
yey) puey oy], ‘UOTeWE[SXx9 Ue poTjs pue punos poum oy] 

«¢ COTY yng 
QUO OU WIBDU0S sjaJOOS S$ YLIY,, :IVd SIY 0} OSO[d uoyods spsom 
esoy} plvey ay pue Jopynoys siy UO UMOp sUed puey zB ‘dnold 
OY} MO[[OJ 0} JNOgGE sem JY SY ‘UI OF 0} JseT Oy) SEM [NOY 
| “PIO 
purysq 351jJO 9y} Oyu poysnu [fe Aoyy, ‘pousdo Joop oy) Ayyeut.y 
‘SOIOA SNOTXUL JEYMOUOS 
pue Jes[d S ploy, pasopso ,,jMe[ oy) JO oweuU oy UT Uddo,, 
‘uado j0U pIp Joop ou} ‘uTeA UI poyeUTLOTNY 
JOIOIOAI “SOYJO ,SIoseueul oy} JO JOOp 94) 0} sued OOS Ady], 
"ABMB POYEM [OLIQey 
<, WB Ysaay ouos yas ATID oWepey] 39] pue OD,, 
‘guOWOpUN Uv UT WY 0} pres oy ,,‘A[peq Sulos ose sBuryy,, 
‘puey s,[oLiqed our Aoy & drys 
O} JOPIOSIP SY} JO 9SeIULAPE YOO) JOJO *991JJO oy} JO} papeoy 
‘MOIS 0} PONUUOS yey) PMOID B Aq POMOTIOJ ‘ploy puy 
<< SOJO Itoy} 0} OF S,jo'] [ppO MOH, 
‘souvreoddesip 
S,o8eq sUNSIIYD jnoge SuIjoU MoU [NS pue dojo IM3u) 
UE SOA[OSUIDY} POYO] pey sioseuewl sy) JY) PIOAIP ][9) 0} 
Jjesury uodn 3 yoo) Awgy ‘WUDTIS pouUTeUIOI JoTDIEPy OUTS 
«<GSUOSeUBU JY} ole DIOYAA {SIoSeueUI 3y) aze oJOyM ‘MoU 
puy °° * OUI YIM SUIOD 0} sv pUTY OS oq [][,NOA FT “MS ‘NOK 9a8 
O} POYSYOP W,],, “PIO, pres ,,jAUSeYyD op JuNoost, ‘Yy,, 
‘ploy Atessturuo0D sofog 0} WIYy psonponur sy puy 
66 “SIS 
‘uoysonb InoA ssoppe prnoys noA WoYM 0} UeUT oY} SI SIU], 
‘Tnoey 0} ples puke IoWIOOMEU 9Y} PIBMO} poppou Joo 
"soho 
onjq suores AT[NJIapuom OM} Aq pousjiysiiq pue ey Apna Aq 
pow aoevy Afpuary ‘Aqqnys ‘yuid e pey oy “uy SuIpuNoUns 
$JBOD Pd[Ie}-MOT[EMS YORI[q Ul USUI JO pMOID OY) JO sUONEINONsSEs 
powoxe oy) oyidsop wyed jo usIs AJOAo pomoys oyM Ue eB 


cor VdaddO AHL HO WOLNVHd FHL 


pot 


:JJosuTY “H “CE WO] 3J0U B SBM PUA ., ‘(jeuosiod) "9 ‘O,, 0 
passorppe ‘¥sop Hoy) uo sdojaauo ue punoy Aoy) SuTUIOU! 9UQ 
‘Ajdurts ay1nb pouoddey pey suru) 
oy} Inq ‘yjJ90} jo Sulyseus pue suideom udeq peYy BOY], “soURy 
puesnoy) Ayam) Jo yuourAed ysIy sty SuNSeT[oo Ul popsodoons 
pey jsoys eiodQ sy) Jey) Jopeor oy) [[>} MoU [IM J “UMOUyUN 
JOAQIOJ UTUISI YI JEU} Joyaid pynom sJoseueur oy) Ysnoy} uaaq 
"Ud9S DAPY 
OM JEU} SOOULISLNDITO OU} UT JolfepueyS oy} Jo TTeF at) Aq ATamUS 
posned jou sem oSULYS SITY} Jey) pUwIsIopUN 0} Japeol dU} UdAId 
aaey [| pue ‘pool sioseuews oy) ut soe[d uaye) APuooel pey 
yey) osueyo ajquoarSesip OY) UO YIeUIdI 0} UOISeID0 pey ALY | 
“Avpap 
JoyyNy norm ssodind yey) Tesasr 0}—ueVO}sIY e se Ajnp AU 
‘st yey}—Aynp yeowoysty AW st 3] “Japesl oy) 0} UMOUYUN [ILS 
SI yey} osodind e JOJ UT SOATOSWISY) PoyDo] pey UTULIEYSUO|] 
pue preyory ‘“orou} goryd uoye} ysnf pey yey) syusAo AreuIp 
-I0RXS UTeVIDD JUOSAId 0} SU MOTE JsNUW Jopeal oy} “Iorpes 
oyua 0) pot Ayurea pey AWI9Yy puke JoJo] Yom “sorjjo .Sio 
-ZEULU SY) OJUT PIOIFIA ATeSsTUMWIOD d1[0g MOTION AM TAOATG 


ysous) eladO 
3Y} U}IM SUOTIE]AY jeuosiag 
Japy SuTUIIUO. ‘AITT) DUIEpR|[ 
Aq sSuot}e[dAzy SurlysIu0}sy 


Li 


(“a}0U S JOJE[SUBI]L) ‘ULIdIZeUI oSe}s Youal; AInjuad-yUaS}OUTU USUI UY, 


SYOOM JOJ JeY) poyIMjno ATYsnoJoy) os useq pey Aou} ‘os USAT 
‘quowAed AjquoUr }xeu oy Jo SuTyUIU ATSNOIAGO sem oH 
<, Puodads oY} UIM 
11,94 Inq ‘punol jsy oy) UOM sey “DH °C— ‘sN ye YSN] prnom sueg 
Ul DUOAIDAY,, "Ples SY ,,“SNO[NSIPL SOATASINO SyeUI JOU S.39'J,, 
‘UMO STY JO uRTd 
B pey oy asneseq Iqnop ou ‘I 0} pasoddo sem preyory ‘ATa}eIp 
-OUIUNT ATeSSTUWOD SdI[Od sy} JOJ puss 0} payueM UTULIEYUOWy 
<,{00} SAISUSdXS SIOU S11 puv,, ‘preyory powder ,.‘sox,, 
‘TeHqey 
Pres ,,jOp pfnoo ,uIpnoy] Woqoy SurmpAue wey} Joyoq sJeUL,, 
[JOM Se poudzysuUy pue—snorny o1om sloSeuew 
SUL j,, Aouow Avyd,, yt pooejdar useq pey syjiq surnusds AyuoM) 
oY} ‘owes ot) JOU sem J Jey) MES AOU) Udy) 3Nq ‘aJOy) [TMs sem 
AguoUl 9y) ey} pospnl uruLeYoUO|] pue preyory “SIs Is IV 
"UdYOIG UI0q JOU peY s[eas dU) yey} oINs BuLyeUI 
Jaye ‘adojaaus oy} pousdo pue 3uniem jo pain sureseq Au) 
Ajjeut,yj ‘owWoy ouos pey Al owepeyy pue ponduio pey wn 
-O}Ipne 94) UOYM doy} [MS sJom Ady], “IOyJIO SAOU Jou pip AoW) 
‘poaowl jou pey sdojaaus 9y) ey) BuTees ‘osnedeq ‘preMJoye 
USA JO ‘SUTUDAS Jey} SoURUTOJIJEd sjoym oy) BuLINp 31y3Is Isy) 
JO yno JaAoU sem adofoAUs ou} Jey) ABM B YONS UI USppIy oIOM 
SIOSEULUT OM) OY} PUB “IOIOIOW] ‘JoLIqey “Surrer oy) uo adoyaaua 
snoiseid oy) jnd pue xoq s,jsoys oy) 0} I43TeENS yUaM 9YS 
“Poyowee 
AJASOTD seM oYs Jey) SuTAes ynoyM soos 3 ‘osudIns ou pomoys 
SYS “UoNIsod I5y UT poye}suTaI USSG pey oYM ‘AND owepeyy 0} 
YI OARS ‘uUOHeUR;dxo Aue JOJ SuTyse ynoYyIM ‘pue odoysAus oY) UI 
souely puesnoy) Ayuom) oy) pooezd way ‘AdoIOes JOLNS Jo oso 
@ Japun “SuMpAIoAe JoIoloy. pue [oLIgeH po} Aoyy, “Jopreuryor|q 
SNOLIO}SAU OY) UO spuey 19y) 103 03 OURYD poo’ e& sem STH 
WY} poplosp Ay) ‘poyoo] Apfnyores AJOA pey Aoyy Jey} WIOOI B OJUT 
393 PfAOO sojOU edT{OgeIP 9SOy} MOY UFESe 90U0 SULIOpUOM OWN 
SUNSEM JROYNAM, “OOWM} PO OG 0} WEA JOU pIp sJoseueU! su]. 
‘ATeSSOOOU ST JVYM OP [[IM OYM ‘AITH oMTEpRPy 0} 31 DAIZ 
pue ‘Teas UMO INOA YA 3 [ees ‘odojaaud sTy) UT STIIq oURIy 
-puesnoy} Ayuomy ynd [IM NOX ‘suOHONNsUI Jo Yoo sy) UI 
poae_ndys uonesijgo ue jyoour 0} nod JO} oUIOD sey SUIT} SU], 


GOT VdaadO AHL dO WOLNVHd dH1L 


"‘pooul poos & UT powses sYS 
‘yey pound posoyos-joos Joy pue ‘ovpl] pue smi Oo} SuTUIN) sem 
JOJOO soy ‘SSOIP vIOJJV} YoRIq Joy SuLeoM [[MS ‘Ul oUTeD oYs 
uoym As} [NJoouI3 & opeU SYS “JOJ JOS seM ULUIOM PIO SU], 
ATID 
owepeyy YM ye} & sABY S.jo[,, ‘pres oy ,,“MouU puUy,, 

. "JI ASO]D JOU PIP ynq ‘adofsaus 
oY} UI Woy) Ind pue WY Jo JUOIJ UT ST]{Iq dUeIJ-puesnoy) AjUOM) 
ay} peyuNos usy) ‘odoyoAUS oY) UTWIeYOUOWY pomoyYs prey 

‘JSNDY JO DOUCULIOJIOd SNOUTRJ-00} 
yey} UO 9SOI UTeYIND 9Yy) aIOJoq Moy Ue Jey Me] jeuoseueur 
oy) OJUI YOO] MOU TIM 9M OS pUY ‘sOUvUIOJIOd oy} aIOJaq 
Toy ue jyey ‘SuTUDAS Jey) JNO Pores 9q 0} sem UONRIAdO oy, 

"paltty 2q 0} ATUO 
pey iJ ‘edojaaua Arewiojsno ou} Aq potuedwiosce sem 9}0U OU], 


ATID) ouepey| 
JUD][OOXS Jey} 0} 31 SAIS puv odo[sauo Ue UT soURIy puRsNoy} 
Ayuom) oy} Ng “[[aM AIOA JUOM J] “OUIT] IS] PIP NOA se og 


ronp sem juowAed JoyjouR yey) 
Wd} PSpulUal SOs 9Y} WIZ 9J0U sNoToeIS B ‘SUTUIOU OY} Uy - 
‘pareoddesip ounsuyD usoya Aep ou) UO—Ooured SU JxoUu Jel) puy 
| _ suonneseid Aur [je Usye) Oaey ][.] ‘WT yxou :ALIOM 
},UOp Ing,, ‘peuRoIs preyory ,.{UMOUY Savy 9M P[NOd MOH,, 
‘AyTapYysnow poryd 
-O1 UTULIBYOUO/] ,,“SSOUISNG SITY} Ul SJOIPI [BIOADS Ie dIOYL,, 
., JOIp!t ue ATUO s,ays yuIE) | Ing ‘ose Buoy, AeMe 
uoye) sem Aououl oyj,, ‘pres oy ,,‘do1jduloooe ue s.oys JI,, 
‘SurgyAue po} oq 0} Joy JURA JOU PIP pIeYyorY ‘soapasuey} 
Joy uo of9 ue Buldsoy pue poysjem ATID owepeyy surTAey ‘s}USAS 
Joyyny poyweme Ady} ‘sorouesunuos [je Joy Apeor ‘os puy 
| "UIN) [BOTOIeJ B YOO) SaUINEUIOS 
UONeUISeUT 9SOyM ‘PIBYSTY PJeMo} pueL sJossadapaid Moy) Wo 
Aeme payrys Aypeuorsess0 ‘JoasMoy ‘UOTOIdsns s ,UTUEyOUOW 
"1 JO WOYOG oy) 0} UDV0S pey Ady [HUN IW ynoqe pos[naIp 
9q P[hoys Zurmpou yey) pue ‘sIossooopeid ey Aq Woy) uo podeyd 
Ajqeqoid ‘ayol yeonoeid aqeisajop B us0q SARY IYSIW JUSpIOUT 
o8uens oy) yey) eopl oy) pey [[Ns Aoy) spur Noy Jo yorq 
au) UL asnedeq soIfod oy) UT [Jed Jou pEP Ady], “o[qepue}ssopun 
oyinb sem yt puy ‘powofop 31q eB Suljsoy djoy you prnoo AoW) 


XNOAJT USL) 991 


MOUY O} OHI] Pam ‘MOU WSHY “opm pV] e UT NOA ]]O? I]... 
..¢seyy Aes nod op Ay A,, 
¢o/ GONE JOU STF Cie SyeyL,, 
<¢ SOUR UDL,, 
< GUITY 0} adojpaaus Jey) SuIIQ 0) NOX 9AIZ OY SCOP YONUT MO}T,, 
<< J8U) INoge yure;dw0d ou aAky J,, 
«id @ nod soars skemye oy puy,, 
«. MOUY Nod ‘auosiayjog AI9A jOU S,9y ‘YO,, 
<, SJUBM DY IOATJVYM OP NOX, , 

<cGJOUM UT ooTTd 
“W000 SIH © * * Wy YUM) nox {201dwosoev s.jsoys oy) W.],, 
«AAT owepeyy ‘are nod ao1[duioose ssoym UeUI SU], 
«GSUBU SSOUAM,, 

<< ST OUIBU STY JEYM SN ][9} 0} SuIOT ar.noA ‘jsM1.J 
‘puejsiopun ssmu noX ‘ased Aue uy *ApOoy10d pueysiopun no Z,, 

.. PueysJapunN },UOp J {uBU NOA Op JeYMY,, ‘A[Iseoun JoWVEI 
ples pue ysop S.preyory 0} Josopos paddajys ays “Joy 0} ssouTY 
uayods pey Aay) JI se sioyaNp oy} Je poyoo, AND owepeyy 

<, ysnoue 
BUC] UO BUOS S.jI ‘SoAjasmo usemjog Jsnf [NS ‘puy ZIT 3,UST 
‘ayof e ATUO st ysoys ou) ynoge AIO}s yey], ‘[[aM AIOA JOUJO YORE 
puyjsiopun 0} 3uIOS a1,9M ams WJ pue ‘nok dAdI[Oq OP |,, 
< {OUI SADIQ ‘11 PaIqnop JoAs sey suo 
ON,, “J8Y PalO[Od-JOOs Joy UO sIoYedJ YOuTG OM} ay) JO SuIABMS 
opues oy) Suiddojs ‘pounepoxe ays ,.juIs ‘Jou 980d JoO,, 
.. pIdms jou ar,nofk 
‘Tle Joigy © °° “nod [93 3,ued om AM UOSea OU S,ar0IN,, ‘3A199S 
yuBpOdUIT ue [eIAdI 0} JNOQe SUOSIOS JO SUC} DY) UT pres pIeyory 
<< SOATISINO UsEMJoq snl ‘MON “JeU} Jesy 0} PoyySI[op a1,9M,, 
<< J8H0Q 9Q 1, UP[NOD “IIs ‘swuIa} poos AIO A,, 
«<G1SOYS SU} YIM SUID) poos uo [Ns noX ary,, 
<«. NOA JaMsue 0} dI9y UT ‘IIs ‘1 ¥svy,, 
_, uonsonb 
spy @ noA yse oO} Oy] PJ ‘ATID ourepey\ qre jo Img, 
<.<O08]9 SUTIOWOS 
yey) SI JEYM PUY jIdIAJOS MOA ye ‘IIs ‘adIAIOS MOA 3 UL.],, 
<< 00} 9S]O Surqowios Joy puy,, ‘Ajqerure 
pres preyory << SdOTaAUS OY} Joy ‘ATID ouTepeyAy “ISI s deyL,, 
«.GOdO[SAUS OY} JOJ AIaYy BWIOD 0} OUI 
poyrem no& asoddns I,,."PYes ays ,, “uourapuad ‘Sumaas poon,, 


LOT  -WaTIO FHL xO WOLNVHd FHL 


Loum jieddnd 
pinsqe yey) jo s8ums oy) Suynd sem oym Ing ,,‘ssoiduis,, 
pue ..Jsoy3,, SpJOM OAK? JY) YM PUIU UTZ Jey} WoIy UTeIQO 
0} a]qIssod us0q pey W Jey OZIVol 0} DdVF poyoxs s.ATIH 
ourepeyy jo Apnys 3uo] & oye 0} poou OU sem 3IDq} puy 

. A[o}o[dWI0S WITY UT PsAdi{aq 
J ‘ssoiduza ue oq 0} Sul0s sem ‘quiom Aw Jo yay ou} “Ysory Aur 
Jo ysoyy ou) ‘Soy OPI AW JEU) OW Pjo} OY Joye “UO Sy) WO1{ 
“WY Ul poastjaq Jyey A[UO p,] Inq “Isoys oy) Jo preoy P,J ,“ISOYUH 
viedQ oY], PpousIs sem WI ‘UsWAPUEH,, ‘ples puke Weyo Joy 
OVO YyorG [eF J[sJOY 39] YS ‘WOJJo owaidns yey) Aq poysneyxg 
« dsSaddua 3&1 sap 
‘COOT Uy, ,, :=pud WM BuNsing sd10A eB Ut ajJou oNHeYdoId oy} 
JO a0ua}U9s se, oy) ayOds sys ‘podLy Joy uo [Ais & oy] pords 
-ul ‘Ayjeuly ‘oureseq oYs poyeultue sJOW puke Jopjog ou} “poy]e} 
ays Jasuo, oy) pue ‘dn poojs pey sy ‘“saseLieul snoLo[s jo 
JST] SNOLIND yey} 9}199I JOY 0} poUs}SI[ UTULeEYUOW] pue prIeyoTy 
oe one ‘TeSmJ0g Jo 
ZUTy Oy) JO JoyJOIq ‘OpueUIe, UOC poLeul ‘Ioouep kB “Io[Ssop] 
SSIS], ‘OLSI Ul “OI[IASUIOH.p Ssouoreg suTedeq “IoOUEp & “ELIA 
Q][aslowapeyl ‘SpSl Ul “playsuey] ssayunoD ouwseosq pure eLearg 
JO smo] Bury poreul ATjeoneuesioul ‘JaouRp eB “ZaJUOJ PIO] 
‘Lp81 uy ‘uredg jo Bury oy} Jo JoyjoIq oy) poLuweU “soup 
B ‘BIOS BT] ‘OPpR] UT “SUISIOA Sop aq[IH JUNOD poLuew “Joouep eB 
‘TUOl[se], OUI ‘ZEST UT “AssnD op asinbepy ourecaq ‘euLoT[eq & 
‘JOLNQUI S[[Ostowapey] ‘S78 Ul ‘owWeEpeyP, ,, :souonboje sur 
-YONO) YIM 9J0U oY} BuTIONI uvSoq sys ‘JooIa SuINIs ‘puy 
«,jpoIpuny & 3q O} 
DAT] [ JI USA ‘I JOSIOF IOAOU [J.J pue weoy Aq I MoUyY | osnedaq 
‘IIs ‘nNOA 0} 9}0U Jey) peol 0} DALY },UOP | “YUL pol ul UoWUM 
‘qOU B Jaye JO ‘OU JOJ Joyo] B puNoOJ |] SALT Xog UI IYSsTU 
9UCQ,, "UO USM UeUIOM pjo oy) ,.‘dut ATUO suIaDUD sit} INg,, 
"ysnel onseores & YA pres preyory ..d4O,, 
«, UTY jnoge 
ye) 0} OW oy] },Ussop ysoys oy © °° ‘Woy “WYS [IV,, 
. ATID ouepeyy “I JO }QnOp OU DALY 3A\,, 
. [2 ye Burpjou ‘7 ynoqe s[qeiouoysip Surmjou ATuTe}199 
S.a10u], “IIs ‘uoseal oy) nod [[9} UBD |] puYy jenn sjeyL,, 
_ UONOASp pure diyspusry s AID owepeyy Ang 
},UOM SoUBIJ U9} JO OAL “JOyJOUe UeY} Joye ysoYys yey) 0} [NOS 
pue Apog jjasmnoX usals 9A,noA uosear ATeUIpJORXs JeyM JOJ 


xnoa] U0jSUE) gL 


-3Ipul ‘astidins Jopy “Ivey Jo [IO poyeyse s AND ouepeyy oAoge 
A[SurTusjeory} PoABMS 3 ‘JTOS} yey OY} JOJ se ‘syutod uoeUIE[OXe 
OUT pouin) Apuejsur ‘syseul uoNsenb om) Jo odeys oy) pey ATI 
-JBUIPIO YOTYM ‘JVY POIO[OI-J00s oY} UO SIOYJVO] YOeI[G OM} OUT 
<, pasoue no savy 0} 3UI03 UW] :noA JOJ JUS J UOSeaT 
JoyIO dy} NOA [][9} [][,.J] MOU puy ‘AlIH sWepRyP ‘Jeoms },U0q,, 
«< ' ' Tams | [Hs ‘ou “yO,, 
<ciI[OM ATOA 
W Mouy nok puy ‘s|[iq ouelj-puesnowp “Arid ouepey ‘soX,, 
“POUWIe[OXS OYS , jS][Iq oURIJ-puesnoyy,, 
‘pousjysiiq 
Apyomnb yey) soXa Aseoun jim odopaaua dy} OWT poyooT, sys 
«FOOT “USIP “TTIAA,, 
“porjdar ays , ‘JOU OSIN0d Jo ‘ON,, 
..¢ adopsaua 
SH) UI S.yeyM MOU NOA op ‘AIH ouTepeyy “ATID ouepeyy st ow 
S]Sora}UI Aor a}e} SsOyM Uosied ATUO 94} Jey) SuIAeS puTU },UOp 
] ‘AusIfog jnoge ased 7,U0p | 3Ing,, ‘Ajysrey poppe oy ,,jore om 
o70y) pue ‘AusI[og Jo pus e st AND owepeyy pue ‘Jsoys st) Jo 
pusly e st AUSITOg,, “porepop preydTy ,.jpyeoy [ ‘sod ‘soX,, 
. Sumpcue 
yous sy) OSNjor },Upfnos AusTog {preyory ‘seoy noZ,, 
_, sulAue 
JSOYS OY} BNJol },UP[NOd oF] “WITY JO poyse Jsoys oy) ZurypAIoao 
pip AusiIjog Madisuop,, “ATID owepepy ples , ‘AusTOg INSISUO|y 
pue }soys oy) UZ0MJOq SJaIOOS OJOM BIO) JYSnoy) seme J,, 
"YZIS B 
UAL pres UTULTRYOUOT] , ,jS! SI} SSOUISNG S[QIPoIOUT Ue JY M,, 

., ged Os ZUTOO] SALJ XOg Jo yno owe 
oy 1sru oy} ‘mouy noA—zeo SIy Ul SUTUJOWOS pres ysoys ou] 
jy preoy oy Inq ‘pip | UeY) aJour Aue WITY 99S 1, UpTp oy ‘ON,, 

jug wes AuSiog maisuoyy os,, 
;, auop 
SeM }I pue AUSI[Og INDISUCFY 0} SPIOM MOJ & pres jsnf OH “U 
JO O19 S¥P} I,J, ‘Posomsue off , APMP JYSLI BULIOTTeq B BUIODEq 
0} S¥Y SYS :oSoT, 0} OWT) Aue savy },u0p nod ‘Cgg] UT ssolduo ue 
aq 0} SUIOS says J], ‘UY 0} pres | “vULIOTTeQ & OUTeDAq Say OTT 

Aux yey} 1OeJ Oy Joy JULY) oO} UTY oavY | “[]fe JO ISM “SoZ,, 
"UTULIBYOUOF] Poyse ,,{SAvs oy SuTpAIOAS 

SAdIJ9q NOA pue ‘NOA 0} SyJe} OY ‘WIY Uses JOACU 9A.NOZ,, 


69T VaadO AHI dO WO.LNVHd dH 


"pouloog 3 ‘poyquins 3 “poymord yf “JapUNTR Poye;TUIT DdI0A 
SIH] ‘APUS[OIA 3 JOoys pue puey s,Arn ourepeyy Jo ploy Yoo) oH 
"OZeS S UTLIEYOUOW PeouSg pal SUTUIN) D0RJ SIY IO pIeyOTY 
eG JUOM 
souvlj puvsnoy) AjuaM) oY) aoym nod uey} Joyeq MOU pmmnoys 
preyory Insisuopy Wired noA op AyAA {ueour NOX op yeyA,,, 
"JJOsJoy uTeydxo 0} 
UCWIOM PfO 34} Poyse UTULIEYOUOP] ‘PowIa0Und pue UIS}s SUTIOOT 
<@MOUY J PINOM MOH, “Yoeqe usye} ‘poyse sy , 403 1ysNo 7,, 
_(JUOM SoUBIZ puesNoY) AjUNM) 9Y) BIOYM Op | UeY} 
Jayjoq MOUY plnoys noA,, ‘pres sys ,.‘preyory Inaisuopy ‘AeM 
-AUY,, “OSOU 0} SSOU plJeyorYy payuoIuOS ulese pue ,.jpuejys ues 
] Wey) VOU S.j],, ‘ADIOA poyoyo & UI ynO palo sys ATUappns 
cc bJOMU) @ UT (JOM V,, 
‘poysindunstp Apsespo 9q pynoo JHour 
-}I9] sTu} ATUO nq ‘suOHIefIAa}UT snosprIy WIM poly soyour. Astou 
B Ul SUIYSE]D AIOM 99} DAY} SATIN oWepR] ‘UIOY) sACGY 
, jouInued [Ms a1, Adu], 
.6Preyory ‘ournuas yNs Aowp ary,, 
. Gulueyouopy ‘oumnuas [ys Aoy) ary,, 
‘Jaded Jo sooord snoreld oy} sutumuexs A[Nsey 
pue dn guryoid ATysuaac} uIZeq puke sa0Uy IO} 0} [][e} YOG WoT} 
opeul }YSNoY) sues sy) Udy) ‘AID & palayN SJoseUPU OM} OU], 
"SOTppIa}INg JURIST OY] SuLSyNTJ pue 
SUTPIIMS ‘Ire OY) YSNoM} MJ sa}ouyULQ oy, ‘Uddo JsINq 3 opeuUl 
poedult sy] “afqnoy ay} [Je Jo asned. ou ‘adopoaus sISeU ou} 
‘JJOSH Odopsaus SY) SEM I :YOOYO [eLIOSeULU OY} YOnNTs yey) puey 
AUOG S,UPWIOM PJO dIQIOSBIT OY} JOU SBM PI ING “OUdAIOUT ppnoo 
UMULIBYOUO|A] BOJoq MOTG SuUIsUSAR AYSIU B PIBYOIY Jeop ous 
. {Urese yeu) Aes, 
jot) ®@ se ‘ATI sUTepeP] ‘poysaue no APY 0} 3UIOS UL.],, 
"SoJeI|SIZeUL JUaSgR 
oY} 0} SALJ XOg JO JoYsn ou} NO SuNUIOd Apealye sem IasuIJoIOJ 
SUIDVUSU SIFT “JOYPeJ OU YyoORq PoAOU! oF ‘OIOJOY sem oH 
“OJ S PIEYSTY OJUT 49d} SUI 
-ureutal sauty Si nds 0 INOQP POUIIES STU} ples Jey) YNOU! JUL, 
<<@DAISALID JUL AADH,, 
“yreyo sty yorq Surysnd djoy jou prnos oym ‘preyory WMH 
- 9SOU. 0} BSOU- JOY {YSNOIG yey JUSUDAOUL SuIpr|s “Zurdeoy ‘Sura 
e ur pessadxo a 19M ONYIA popusyjo pue ‘uLEe “sajoid ‘uoneU 


xnouzy uOjsy®) OZI 


-¢, NO punoj Ayyeuly savy ysnur nod jng *Mauy sn Jo 
JoyjIou,, ‘psoise ueWIOM plo s[qeovfdult oy} ,,‘ony) S31 ‘soX,, 

. AID) ourepeyyl ‘Jey} Ieoy 0} pe[s AISA UL] [I yoge 
ZulyjAUe MOUY 1,UpTp | pue yoxO0d Aus Ul souesy puesnoy) AyUOM} 
ind nox jJoyS MOUY 1,UPIp | OG,, “UTWeYOUOP] paseardsip yey) 
ye Suisossems e& uo Surye) ATUoppns ‘preyory pres , jeqy,, 

«¢ PAVYOTY INSISUO|Y PIp JouoU Puy “MOUY 1 UpIp J 
yey) urese NOA SUTIIA} WJ ING ‘Jayood s preyoTY Insisuopy ul Ind 
[ adojaaus oy) Ul souRIy puesnoy} AjUOM) SeM arou) Aes nOoX,, 

‘QOUSIOUUT UMO JOY Ul YITey WIM 
jUBIpPeL adv Jay ‘UOISsaidxs porAIeUI & UO Yoo} AID owepesy 
«. JIasAw Zutrsolus uJ 
‘9q 1,Upfnoys nod ynq ‘snoLmMy o1,noX “Sury) soy sty) dn sesjo 
O} JNOQGE 31,9M WOYA Jey} OI] OavYyoq NoA AYM puEsJopUN },UOp 
[ ‘Joy UONsonb ow jo] “JfosIoy ure[dxs Joy 39T jOINA j)9INH,, 
‘doys 0) wy 
polopio ATULNY uTWeYyoUOyy Inq ‘uTese SuNOYS UBZoq preyoTY 
<< OUI DAISIOJ 
[IM sous oy} odoy J “nod pjo} oA.J ‘oo ],, ‘ouoyJopun ue 
Ul pappe sys puy ,,"}xood sty ur souvsy puesnoy) Ajuam}3 oy) ynd 
OYM UO OY} SBM J DOUIS,, ‘pore[Sop sys ,.‘JeY} ples JOAOU J,, 
..G}0900d sTy UI souRIy puesnoy} AjuONy oy) 3UNINd 
Jo pleyory Insisuof] onseejjoo Aur yoodsns no pynod Moyq,, 

‘A[Sursemoous pue Apues ‘Joy uoNsonb 0} pouajsey 
ulueyouoy ‘AID oWepeyy [resse 0} jNoOge UsNq pEY ‘USD0UUT 
o1mb sem oyM ‘preyory yorym ym Any oy) parry Suraezy 

‘AIP UleUIOI 0} YYSNo Ady) USyM JeOMs JO ‘yeams 0} JY3NO 
Aoy) uoym Arp urewos Jo ‘Zurmjou Aes 0} 343no0 Aoy) uoyM yeods 
Jo ‘yeods 0) 1y83n0 Aoy} UsyM Suro Avs JO ‘ysaj}01d JO ‘preMIOJ 
duin[s 10 ‘19019 SOA[SSUIOY) MBIP JO ‘IOS3eIS JO ‘Ysn{q Jo ‘ayed 
WIN} WISY} SOYVUL PoATad.eI savy Ady} MOTG sy} oSsNed0q A)[IN3 
woes ATuoppns Aoy} ‘ooved ye soUaTOsUOD JIOy) YIM astIdms Aq 
poysene ore ojdood yuaouur Apooyiod uaym yey) st WI os puy 
‘uoresnsoe a[qndurajyuos & Yons 3da0fa1 0} JUOUIOUT 
JYMOYJIP wy} ye popsou savy prnom sy YISuays oy} ISO] SPT “YOOT 
snoroidsns A[sutseoioul s urueyouopy Aq usu pue ‘Ajdax pajood 
-xoun yey) Aq ISNJ ‘YOnNsJopuny 9q 0} WIN) s.pIeYyORy sem I] 
‘[TAOp oY} a1OM OY FI Se UTY ye ZUTyAOOT 
Mou ‘ApTujesiq pres sys ,,jJ9y90d mod ojUT yUOM J OsNedOg,, 
-CAUM {JOM sou puesnoy) 
AWUOM} 94) DISsyM Op NOA UY) Joyeq MOUY | pynoys AyAA,, 


TZ1 VaadO SHL dO WOLNVHd SHL 


_ adopaaue INoA WM. AVeMe yVM P,J SurpAue 
MOU },UptIp nok FI pue ‘Bummou Mouy NOA JI se joe 0) OU PIO} 
noX 3nq,, ‘Ajfeonesojode pres sys ,,‘uswopued ‘oul osnoxq,, 
_,jQIOW ON jYsnous pey 0A,9M4 jUIese 
Sn UO YO) sues ay) [[Nd 0} BuIOS JOU o1,nNOX jON jou ‘YyO,, 
"Joy JOJ YsMI B opeUl 
SIOSVULU OM} 9Y} ‘OALIT 0} JNOQE SBM SYS se Isn¢ “JOOP dU} JOJ 
popeoy pue siiiq AjuoM) oy} SuTUTe}UOS odOpOAUS SY) YOO) sYS 
_ UsWMIa}Uss 60} PRIS 9q [I.I,, 
_ BUIWIOU MOY OM YSnoy} se yoy ‘adopoaus oy) 
$. 0H {][FIS INoA Jo uopeNsUOWAp & sN SAIS NOA [IM UOL,, 
., JSoys oy) sem z ‘SOZ,, 
.gjeyood 
S pleyorYy INsIsuopy Ul suo Jey} ynd pue NOA sAPd 9M DUO JU} 
JO} I SINSQns 0} NOA po} ‘adojaaue sity}? Nok saved oyM ysoys 
ay) sem 3],, Joy oznoudAy 0} SuIAN o1oM oY JI se ATID ouIep 
-BJ UO poxiy soXo sy YIM ‘ponuTUOd oY PUY “SdI0A Ssofauo} 
B UI ples UTULIeyOUO|, ,,‘SM BJOJOQ SAVY OM DUO OY) d¥I'T,, 
., soldurosae 
Ue ST SOx") W [TW ‘Iso[durs oy) sAeMTe STB SOL 3S9q SUL,, 
"IOAO 
uey} UUIa{OS sou ‘uTUeYoUOWy poyeodal ,,jo[dults os $.3],, 
‘preyory ples ,,jojdums os s,3],, 
‘JolpIes YOU eB 
WIdY} papuNnojse os pey yey} souO oy) OyT] , AoUOW Avzd,, Jo sT[Iq 
AyUOM} pouteyos yf “yt pousedo Au, “sjeos [eLIOSeueU UMO IIOY) 
Kkq podureys xem YIM posojd sem } yey) MES pue “I pouTWeXa 
‘Ioy WoOI Wt poyoyeus sioseueul oy], “ABM UES OY} UT possaIp 
-pe ‘souely puesnoyy Aju9M} oy} SuTUTe}UOD OUO oy) OYIT Apoexs 
adopoauad Ue dADZTS JOY WO, Yoo} ATID swepepy ‘sIy) Sulkes 
., JSOyS ou} Aq OU 0} WATS seM TI pue ‘Apeol [je 
‘gacg{s Aw dn zt pey J “U0 JsMJ OU) OyT] APORxo sdopoAUs Jomjoue 
SEM XOq S,jSOYS 3Y} UT Ind | OUO OY], "JOYSOd Ss PIeYOTY InsIsuop] 
ut ynd | yey) dW dAed NOA OUO SQ SYM HW INQ ‘dU BSNdxq,, 
_, SouBly puesnoy} 
AyuaM} 34} pouTeyuOD ouO yey) ATUO 390A pue ‘SAL XOg 0} d¥E} 
Nod poyoyem 9M OU oy} ‘NOA DABS 9M DUO OY} },USeM I] {0490d 
§ pleyory Insisuopy ur ynd nod pip sdopsaus Jo pury 1eyM,, 
"UOTJeSOIIIUT STY 
0} yoeq JUOM oP “JOY ps}d9}0I1d UTUIeYUOP] ING “aJoy} Useq JOU 
pey urueyoUopy I Joy poysijowop savy Ajomns pynom pleyory 


xXNOsI] U0JSVS) CLI 


sty Jo ou0 ut odopeAus oy pooeyd pue preyorY puryoq poddays 
OYS ., SSoUIsNg OPsH,, Joy ouOp pey sys MOY pomoYsS sys 

., Apuey AIOA st yoxSod yey], ‘yayo0d 
InoK WIM ssoursng spy] Au poystuy ysnf p,J ‘ss “WSU sey], 

| {NOX 998 [|S ued | ‘Joquiowal 

J ‘SOX ‘SUI pUulYyog osTo SHO OU seM SIOYT, ‘OW! ysUTese poysniq 

P.noA yey} OUT 0} poluses JI pue ‘ATID owepey ‘our ysed Suryyem 

o19M NOX ‘punore pow [ suo yw [TY “JfOsW o8uno] oy) wi 

oom ArejaIoos oyealid sty pue Arejoisesiopun oy) ‘oSuno] ay) Jo 

sdajs ot} UO sem | “O[IYM aI] e JoJ B8uNO] .sIOOUEp ou) 0} JUOM 

J ‘OW! Joy poyse pue asvysyouq sured Arejaloasiapun ayy; MOU 19q 
“Wouter * * * ‘Jequiouler j,, ‘Aj[nPYsnorp pres oy , ‘ony s.3],, 
‘Jay poddoys Andnige preyory ‘spiom ssouy iV 

« ° | UOENSTUTUpY suY our oY) Jo Are}OID08 

-Jopuy) 94} UayM sUO oY} ‘SUTUDAS }xOU OY) SuLINp sem I j}eyo0d 
mo ut sdopaaus oy) ynd | usyM SuTUsAS om },USeEM Je} pUv,, 

«<jPUOSIS BUO JOJ dBuNOT ,sIsz0Uep 

SY} 0} O8 },UpIp | ‘axoup ind p,nok odojoaua aspey ay) pue Aly xog 
SUTyOeM “UINLO}pHe oy} Ul SuTUAS yey) JUads | asned0g,, 
<<GPOH [ Wrep nod op AYAA,, 

| “poreg W909} 

sory} JOY YA “jOoIe J[esIoy MoIp pue popsiiq syg *Ajsouoysip 
jo uonesndoe oy) ueY) ssoy AND ouepeyy Sunjs youjids sy], 

«<i YOIIM PO NOA ‘al] B UT NOA yYSNeD 

A.J INg,, ‘SACL SULOpuNYL Jo ssouwsojs oy} IPIM Joy ye SurIEys 
‘preyorRy PeMos ,,‘} ynoqe s1seur Zurpou sem aio ‘ON,, 

cei HE INOge OIseU 

SUTIJOU sem dIOY], “JOxO0d [reyeoo of oyur edofaaua ayy poddiys 

pue nof puryoq quam J ‘punose ajdood jo Ayuojd are alsuy, 

“preyory Insisuoyy ‘nod Op Og ‘00} oBeIsyorq UID sIaqtIOsqns 

OL ‘oseofd | se O8 pue sUI09 | ‘spIOM JOYJO UT] “JUAUIOSSTIOAIP 

OU} JOJ SUIT) $.j1 UoYM JOY 0} sooys Jo][eq Joy 3ulIq | ‘JoyJOW JOY 

WJ SUIS ‘Op 0} JYSH B sABY J YOTyM ‘Jo}y3nep Aw YIM sSunNoy 

.SISOUP 94} 0} OF Ua}jo | pue ‘aSejsyorq outod sAemye | SuTUsA9 

oy) suLinp ‘mouy nok sy,, ‘ANID owepep pres ..41 payedxe 
yseo]_ Nok usyM Joyxood moX oyut yt dis 0; pasoddns sem ]J,, 

"YINT) BY} JOAOOSIp 0} SurpAue op oO} SuTPIM sem 

oY Ing “Jeoj [ENSTA INIZIP B sem WI SAID ouepeyy Suryoyem Asnq 
S@M SUO YS SITY s[TYM WY UO oXo Yo, sty doy UTUEYOUOW 
‘preyory poyse ,.430490d Aur ojut 9 diys noA pip Moy 3ng,, 


€ZT VaddO FHL JO WOLNVHd dHL 


. jeyood du ut SuryjAue ynd suo ou pue 

‘souely puesnoy} AJUdA\} dSOY} JO puBSNOY) Ud) SAeS | JEU) SUES 
-JOJ o1,noA jnq,, ‘UTWIReYOUOP] pres ,,“o[qesTUIpe oq Aeul 3I,, 

« M1QesTUupe 

S.J] jasou) sem J MOUY 1,UpPIp J ssnedeq } soNOU },Up;NOM 

J yey) JUopTyUOD ‘yoyD0d Au wo AouoU 94} SY") 0} :UOTINTOS 

ysoq OY} PUNOJ OF “3 YOO) OYM Uossod oy) pue soURIZ puRsNOY) 

Ayuom} OY} SARS OY UosIed ay} UIEMI0q ATeIPOULIOWUI snoJosuEp 

Aue ayeuruiys 0} sem wy Joy wofgoid sy] °D ‘CE Jo Joagpo 
AIA SJI,, ‘aed op eB ‘pIeYyORY poulrepoxe ,,jasmnoo jo,, 

‘Ayayxop Joy Aq possoidumt sem ‘Ajasopo Joy suryoyem 

seM OUM ‘UTUeyOUOY yeu) Apyop pue Appornb os syoyood jreyeos 


XNOJIT] 404SVD) 7A! 


CLT 
JopJO 3y} INO SurALe. ‘sJeoddesip 0} opeul sem ays ‘Joye! ‘IM 
‘porvoddesip pue ‘joyood [leyvoo sIy UI soueIy pues 
-noyy AjU9M) oy} ynd ‘peyory isurese poysniq ‘Xq possed Any 
oWEpey] “UONeNsSUIWIpY sy UL] oy) Jo Arejaloasiapusy, ou) 
pojyoais prey oy uoyM Usd0q pry sy aJoyM doeRId ouTes oy) Apoexo 
UI POO}S PIBYSTY ‘WTY puTyoq saoed eIDANS UTUIEYOUOPY WIAA 


‘souvly puvsnoy} 
AjuoM} puodsas oy) poddys savy prnom AnH owepep yormM 
OVI ‘yoyxOod [TeyVOd Ss pJeYySTY JO IIs oso] puUOdes aUO IOJ 30U 
p[nom urueyouoyy ‘puoses ‘poreoddesip souvsy puesnoy) Aju0M) 
SIT} OY} USYM BpeUl peYy SY SJUOUTOAOU! OY) yeodar APOeXe pjnoM 
preyory SUTUIAS Jey) ‘jSIL.J “WOY) 0} poyeoAar udaq ysnf pey yeyM 
Aq pourluliojop sea UTIeYOUOJ, puke pleyoRYy Jo yoNpuOS sy], 
‘AWUSIpP [eLaseueUl Jo svopt poydoooe YIM JUO}SISUOOUT OS 
‘suonoe ppo Ajjeuondeoxe asoy} JoJ UOseaI B pUIJ 0} sn Joy Aseo 
o3inb 9q MOU [[IM HI pue ‘JonpUOS aBueNs .sIoseueU dy) paArasqo 
Ajsnotmns ‘wry ysed dys surmpAue 30] Joaou oym ‘AWOY Yor 
SULINP , .JOV UdpIeS OU} J9}Je UOTSSTWIDUT,, SY} 0} SN SBUTIQ STULL 
WO} SUIDSOTJ SPA OY [aIpuNods 
OU) JOAOOSIP wiry djoy 0} ‘wy Jo poyse uUTWLeYOUOP JoAg}eyM Op 
PINOM preYoTy yey) posse sem 7 YOIYM Jo pud oy) Je “JUSWINSIe 
AULIO}S B JJO poyono} H yey) oNBea]joo sty Jo pey MoU sy UOT 
-Idsns ot) passoidxa AjrJeajo os pres ysnf GVH NINAVHONOW LVHA, 


Mig Ayazesg & JO IoTAReYag 
ie[NSuIS ay ],, JO UOTyeEnNUTWUO-) 


ST 


| ‘souvly puvsnoy) AJUOA} 
Troy) Jo ATUo SuryuTy) com Aay) yng ‘spud oy) Suowe uoHesues 
B® posned sary pinom Adu} esneseq ‘UTWUeYyUOPy pue preyoTy 
JO} A[Lyon[—ouess snommos oy} SuLMp one oy} UI alam sIoOURp 
yUSpNys oy} [fe ApwoNy ‘uOTFUDHe pojoRNye I] ‘poonouun ssed jou 
pip oisnpy Jo Awiopesy euoneN oy) Jo sloseueu ot Aq pajydope 
us0q pry yey} ose}Syoeq SuTyyeM Jo ABM MOU SIU} Ulese BUD 
"JUOI UT WO wWIY SuTyoeoidde suoAue 39s pnod JjasuTY oy pue 
‘uTUeYyouoyy Aq puryoq Woy poyoyem sAemye sem oy snuy, “Aemaey 
UOHeYSUIUIpe dy} 0} SWIeD oY [WUN ‘UOTINED Jo yno ABA yeu) BUT 
-yJeM ponunuos preyory ‘Mog 0} premyougq poyem IsITy SuLACH 
{o10Joq aUOp pey sy se Apovxe SuIOp 
9q 0} posoddns sem oy S0UIS ‘OUIT} SIU} QUOSIOS }90U OY prnoys 
‘nod yse | ‘uay) ‘AYA “WIY JsuIese poysniq AND owepRy, Joye 
vIodo au) JO wed jeY) UI OUO OU 39U peYy oY SUdDS [eUISLIO oy) SUE 
-Inp ‘jUNODDe UMO s_ pIeYyory Aq ‘aours Aypetsedsy , “Away UdAe 
oqAeul JO ‘TenUsD WpP9IQ 3) Jo Jadeueul oy) JO ‘Iopessequue 
oy) sem 3 aqAey,, ‘Aes pue ‘poreoddesip pey sours puesnoyy 
AquoM) 94) UOYM ‘Ja}e[ WY 0} SUIOD 0} prey JueM jou pIp 
pue vopl UMO SIY pey UTULIEYOUO] “‘preYyoTy Yono} 0} Jou PeyUID 
JIPZIZ oy) Jo Joseueur oy) pue sLOpJOg e’] op Jopessequry poyse 
pue Aeme 03 0} AWIDy plo} ay ‘OS pIp sy SY ‘pyemyorq sure 
pue.3uimoqg ose sem ulTueyouopy ‘AeMe SOUR}SIP LOUS VY 
‘SUIJOU JO JOY Ul 
pxyemyorq Sune pue ‘ouo OU aJOjaq ysTeM OU} Je SUIpUdg ‘aoeds 
Aydura 0) 3uIMOg SEM pIeYyoTY ‘popunojyquinp Ajqepurj}siopun o1oM 
ouaos a[qeorjdxour A[Zuruises ynq yeInjeu yey} Jo sIoyejoAads oy) 
‘WITY JO JUOIJ UI DUO OU SBM SIO) OUTS “JNq “WIY JO JOT UI USaq 
Ayyenjoe pey Arejoloasiopun ou} jt Sutstidins useq avy 3OU p[nom 
ssouayljod Jo MOYS SIU], “WIY Jo JUOI UI ‘UOnRNsIUTWpY sy 
SUL 34} JO AlejaloosIopuy) oy} ‘TeIoIJo [njsomod pue ysty yey 
pey oy JI se premyoeq poyem pue pomog pleyory opryMuEsjy 
 ‘gseoieys jeo13 9) Jo srepid oy} pusal 0} yYsnous [nynId systs 
SUIAROY pur ‘poudjeamy Uddq peYy sys WoOYM YM AlesstuU0s 
do1jod ay} Jo sdajsjoojy oy} [Tey JUeUOSAI Oy) UT SUTIeSYy ApeorTe 
‘jsalo A[JopsOsIp eB YJeoudq opim usdo uUSsyOIYO palopjiMmoq ke 
jo saXo au) WIM ams pousjysuy ‘Aqqeys ‘100d e ATUO MoU sem 
ays asnedeq ‘a0uR}sISaI ou dn jnd sys puy “}soys I9Yy YIM ayeOTU 
-NUIWOS 0} s[qeUN 9q pynom says ABM Jey] “dd1JJo uoNeNsturUpe 
oy} ul ATID sWepR] Peyd0[ JoloJopy ‘ousos oy) Jo JUOUORUDAT 
oy) BOJog sJUSWOU MOI B UY USAIS pey uUTWIeYOUOWY Jey) 


XNOJF] U04SUS) 9LI 


<jSOURIJ puRSNOY AyUIM}) WIM syof j,Uso0p ou, 
ig “oyof eonovid aiqeiojdap ; B JO no yodsns.] “soX,, 
«G0Ul Oodsns 0} aep nNoX,, 
| ' ¢<i3f JO YORU 00} pey oA,] “preyory, , 
- .¢ {ST} Jo: yYSnous pey 9A] ‘urUMTEYyoUOW,, 
WHY preMo} opnjynye s[qeiojo}UT ue SuTye) sem 
UTULTeYyoUO YA] Jeu [295 0} uesoq preYyoORy uodnaroyM ‘spreyap yons OvuT. 
03 j0U prnom oy yey) Aes 0} Suruses ‘passnys uMMeyoUOW|kSCS 
., Mou Aq pareod 
-desip savy pinom ay “31 auop: pey Woy Jo suo jt pue—syuRAIos , 
Au jo ains w4y,, “pajsajoid . preyony <A OTQVASToOquN S$ I],, 
_ ‘paydope mou pey urueyouoyy yey) MOTA Oy) SBM STU], 
¢< IE JO IQNOP JsaxYysI][s oy) SAeY 3,UOP | ‘auoy unok wos pareod 
-desip soueyy puesnoy Ajuam) oy ‘oSeweo Aur ut auloy nok 
yoo} J,, “Ajdreys pres urseyouopy .. ‘aiqissodunt S,yeu) ‘ON,, 
., awoy AWM AU UO poqqos useq sAey ISN 
I,, “SOMOWsW sIy yaT[oo 0} sulky ‘preyory pres ..‘usy],, 
<, 200 ON,, 
<.@SN QIN{SIP 0} SUIVD SUO OU PUY ‘pip 2M Os ‘soX,, 
,, SWOY O38 0} Yo] NOA ;HUN,, 
"Pes oY , “SUH ISR] OU} SIU) OY] SO1JJO ou} UT poceys WIOq 2M, 
"yoxOod sty Ut 
Aoy 34} ynd oy jJjasuTYy uTULTeyoUOW] sem IY ‘WOU pulysq Joop 
SY} Pasojd puew Sd1JJO Joy) OUT JUOM Ady) JojeT soNUTU OMT 
‘poyUBM UTLIeYUOPY Se pIp oy 
"peoy 
sty Suryeys “ysis & WIM poywpe preyorYy ,,‘onn sey, 
<, NOK pulyag asojd paMoy[oy 
J pue ‘aseys oy) Yo] p.noA Joye ysnf ‘Tey sty Jo JoWI0D oy) Ie 
no poutof J :owWn se] oy) pIp om yey ApOVxa SuIOp o1,9/A,, 
«<jPINsqe st SUIOP o1,9M Jey Ud T,, 
.. Suidoy u1,] yey ATostoaid s yey, 
<.{SOUBIJ puesnoy} 
AjuaM} IMO Tes}S 0} s[QIssod aq },UOM J aSed Jey) UI INg,, 
., NOA puryaq asojo Aes 
IL. J Pue oUF Jo JUOIJ UT FEM :ON,, ‘pol[dor urueyouoW; ing 
., Suoddey yey ses [],9M pue ‘snoroidsns ouodue oyeur 
},UJSNU BAA “S9d1JJO BY) JO JOOP sy} 0} 303 | [[ SMopeys oy) UT 
ou YoeM pue ou Woy AeMe Jey Joye Aejs 0) nod JUeM | MON 
“SUI PoyoNo} sUO OU SINS WI ,, ‘UTUTeEYsUOY 0} Apornb pres pre 
“Yory ‘Avmyfey uonensrurupe yep-jyey oy} 0} owes Aoy) VOU, 


LL1 VaidO FHL dO WOLNVHd FHL 


"pres oy ,.‘aloy) [JUS st soury puesnoy) Ajuam) oy} odoy J,, 

‘pIByOTY puryaq Wouy uTULIeYOUOPY ‘JOOP Sy) SUISOTD JoITV 

"}xou pouoddey yey st J0f] 
"Yonul Os pajyuem oy uld Ajazes ou 
wy ae3 Aog 901JJo ue Moy pue ‘ud AjaJes ou pey oym ‘AUIDY 
POATa001 SY SUIT owes yey) Je MOY MOUY om puy ,,juId Ajayes 
B OUI SAIS UeD OU jUId Ajoyes Y,, “[[eY oy} OWT paynoys pue 

Q01JJO 9Y} JO JOOp sy} pouedo uTWEYOUOPY USYM sem Jey) puy 
_,juid Ajayes y jMou aw yodsns nod ‘yO jpuey dw sy JoyJOyM 
998 [].NoA pue—joyood mo wor, AUOU! 9Y)} J¥e) 0} SOL Jey} 
puey 9) [29} [[.noA ‘owoy ye Jo ‘awoy Ae INoA UO Jo ‘aroY Sj 

JoujoyM ‘Udy, jsouesIy puesnoy} AyUOM) Oy) 0) NOA YORE ‘soX,, 

quid Ajayes & YIM OU YORE 0} UBM NOZ,, 

_ juid Ajayes y juid Ayoyes y jnod yoeny,, 

guid Ayayes & UIIM Op 0} JUBM NOA Op WY AA,), 

"polo oy ,,juid Ajayes @ Joy ‘YO,, 

‘UOTSAsaNs sty) Aq PoyeLInjul sem UTUIEYOUO/y 
_<jSMod ur 
ZUIdg JO soULYS poos e& pey HW “yayO0d Aur UI JOSUOT OU SeM SOUR 
puesnoy) AjUOM} OY} JT IVY) YUTY JYSTU J—OUIT) Ise] Oy] “OU IBOU 
QUOD 0} dUO ATUO ay) Useq p,Nod ‘YsTM UMO MOA Aq ‘dus pue 

‘puoses AIOA9 OUI YIM U90q P.NOA OUTS JU) YUIY) WSU Y,, 
"UOSWILIO SUTIN} 

Q0vJ SI ‘UMMIeYOUOPY poyse ,., YUM nod JYysIUM yeymM puy,, 
SUI ISeT SYIT "°° yoyood yeoo AW Wo poreoddesip pey souvy 
puesnoy} AjuaM) OY} Jey} PUNO} | ‘JOYIO YOvI SAvIT 0} JNOGE aIOM 
aM se ‘JI puke ‘auIoYy ou Yoo) nod pue JoyjeS0} suOTe SUTUDAG 
oy) quads om ‘oUt yse] OT] “Jl YUTEA IYSTUT | yey Jo SuLUIY WJ 
‘JO SULUTY) UI] JeYM S.d10H,, ‘WY 0} pres pue—uesoq pjJom 
9} IOUIS DOULIJOpP JO SINSOS JUS[OSUT UV—jsoYd STY JOAO SULIE STY 

Popjoy oyM preyory pojyesodsexo ue Sulovy JJSSUITY puNojy 9H 
‘dn poojs Ajlisue unieyouopy] 

‘spuey s,urmeyoUO Wor, Jodedsmou oy) poyojeus preyory 

«¢ SUIT} 4SPT SANT, 

< GOUT ISB OAT, 

_ awoy Nod d¥xP} 0} OW JOJ OWT} SII [NUN ‘soX,, 
.~ Mou Jaded oy} peal 0} 

Bulo8 Ayjeos nOA ary, ‘pleyory poyse ,.{Sulop nod ore yey M,, 
| "Wt Surpeod 

jo ejdsip poyuiod e opeur pue Jodedsmou e popfoyun ay 

“UTULIeYOUOP] ples , jase ATysnosoy} J,, 


XNOAFT U04SV5) SLI 


‘poaise preyory ,,‘I Op og,, 

‘UTULTeYOUO] pres ‘MOU OF UD OM WUIU) ],, 

‘dn poojs pure poysis Aoy) ‘yuopis wore} pey YOO oy) UAU A, 
"seo JIoy} ul Ajosueys 
popunosal syoIjs YOM) OY) puy ‘speoyosoj; Moy) UMOP Popp 
JEOMG “ISNed sjl SUIMOUY joy HW JsuTese po[s3nns Aurea 

Aay) pue wey) peddus Ajarxuy ‘posoppnys ssoSeuew om) ou], 
‘popunos yYSTUpTU Jo syoNs ISI 

oy) pue A[joliq paling sdotd[ayueul oy) UO YOO] oy} USY) ISN 
ce)” YSOYS OY) UT SADTTOG 0} SAY ]][,OM ‘31 
WIM Op 0} suryjAue sey sn Jo JoyjIou pue sreaddesip Aououw om 
J pue ‘oul pue nod yng aoy suo OU S,alou} “[[e Jaye osnedeg jsn 
peqqol pue—[eJ Jotfapueys oy) spew pue ‘yonbng ydesor po[ry 
pue ‘oALyj XOg UI poye) pure ‘31 uO sadojeaua o1seu nd oyM pue 
‘preoy Aprea[d om se ‘d[Qe} STU} UO SOU oly) poyoouy oyM soy3 
B sem Ayjenjoe yw osoddng,, ‘syeo o[qistaur Aq preoy 3uteq jo 

pleije a1oM 3Y JI Se ‘OOIOA MO] @ UT ples preyony ,,j}SOys su], 
"poyooyze ATdoap joj 0} Suru 

-uIgoq sea AT[eol OYM ‘UTUIeYOUOP] possayuod , ‘op | ‘soX,, 
sJoydsounje ou} jnoge SulusYysuy pue ‘Sumosdn ‘Surqsumsip Sury) 
-OWOS § dI9q} Jey) [90 NOA },UOp ‘ATTeIOedse ‘Mou IYSTY,, ‘pres 

ay .,‘[njJomod-le st ysoys oy) yey) SutAotjoq dn puo Aewi J,, 
‘Ysne[ 0} por pre 

-yory ‘oatssoiddo pue ‘snorsjshur ‘Aaeoy ‘Mors ‘Aq UOM SUIT], 

..iPeeu J souoHed oY [fe aey II.],, 

_, SUNT} SE] IYO] OM Je) JYSTUpTU Jo syons 
oy} UO sem PT puke “JYSTUPIU OyINS UOOS [[IM YOO] oY], “Wem 
0} SOINUTM sJOU Moy eB ATUO DAY OM ‘preYyoTY “juaned og,, 

“Sop 
sly 1e@ A[Sso[UONOUI jes preyoTY sy W UO sao sty doy pue 
[fByBOS SY} PUTYSQ UMOP Jes 9Y Udy], “jf 0} Wo pouutd AT[nJareo 
pue ‘jayx9od [reyVvod s preyory ur way) ynd ‘ournuss pur ‘azoyp [Te 
oom Aoy} yey) Surlses Aq J[OSUITY PoINssval oF “NYS 11 Ponts usad 
JO adojaaus oY} poyess jou pey sy ‘s[[Iq ay) Jo soussaId oY) AJLIOA 
UaJO P[NOd ay Jey) OS ‘OUI SIU, “SuI[quiaN ‘AouoUT oy) JNO MaIp 
pue joyood s.pleyory wo adojaauo oy} yoo} uTeyoUOWy 

<¢ UY}? YONO} 0} JUBM },UOP | “J[asMOoA JO} Yyoo’y,, 

“OUIT) ST} UT Usye} 9q J[ASUITY jo] 0} JOU 
POUTULIA}Op ‘UTULIBYOUOJ] POYse ,.ZS[[Iq ouINUDS oy} Adu} aly, 
“preyory pres .,“] Op og,, 


641 VdaddO AHL JO WOLNVHd SHL 


WUT 0} 3sn 
Aue Jo 1030] ou sem yeu) uid Ajoyes & Jo1OIS|A] poroppimaq ATTeI0} 
oy} popuey sy ‘JUSWIOAOU! SNOTdSUOOUN Ue UI ‘USL, ‘pres oy yey 
ZUIpUL}sIopuN JO WY SUIZTUZOSOI NOY A[SUTUIZeS ‘IOTOIOI| 
WIM SpJOM Moj B posULYOXS pue ‘UOJEWO}NE Ue oy] JSOW]E 
Suryyem ‘1 usdo 0} JUOM J] ‘JOOP oy} UO YoouY v sem oy] 

‘SuTUIey JO a3I0A oy) UO AMuapraAa ‘Appeom 
ples urwmseyouopy ,,“I1 Davy },UOp | yey) [NOS AU UO IeOMIS J,, 
_ {oul 0} YORQ I VAIH jsouwy puesnoy AjUIM} Au 
yorq SUI 9AID jy0y90d Au poyono} OYM suo ATWO oY} AI.NOX,, 
‘uaTY Je poysni ATUoppns preyory ng 
“pamMuULMU uTUMTeYyUOp ,,“Isoys Sf], 
"WI JO }qnop Aue aq JoBUCT OU pfnod sIoy) ‘TeInjyeuradns 
ZuIJOWIOS WIM Burpeop som Ay], ‘oped pou) su OM) OY], 
‘gonjd owes oy} UT pous}sey [[NS sem uid Ajoyes oy} Jey) SBM 7 JO 
ped ysoSuens ou puy ‘Ajdusa sem 3 ‘Joyood oy) Joy quis eB opeUl 
Yoq UTMUEYDUO|] pue aF{ “JeOD sTY JJo yoo) Appornb pseyory 
cciJl9SINOK IOJ [994,, 
_¢ J JOY SUN OY) 7,UST SIL, “UTUTeYUO ‘It NOge oyol },U0q,, 

_,jhauou ays jou ing uid Gafos ays jaaf uvo J,, “paynoys ‘yayood 
oy} punosze Asnq [WS soa spuey asoyM ‘uTUeyoUOW, Ing 

_, SN gOI 0} som) ouOAUe 
JI 1 9ONOU 0} aMs aq [I,J ‘INO poyutod nod sy “A[[eIMeN,, 
., uid Ajazes ayy fee} [[NS ued T,, 

‘uorodsur sTY SUTYRW sem UTUIBYOUOP afTYM poyse 
oy ..dTeM,, “PIeYORY pres ..ju Op ssw NOX j9sinos jO,, 
.g}24ood NOK Ul YOO] BW 32] NOA [IM ‘oAvI] 9M DIOJO,, 


XNOLFT U0jSY) OST 


T8t 


“"WeAIp B Ul YSNOY} se pres. oy ,.‘soueul 
-Joyiod & JO o[pprur oy url pareoddesip oys og,, “1 Surztfeal 
INOYWM OYORISNU SITY WIJ SIOYSTYM [eIJOAVS pol[nd oF] , .jUsIsar 
OUI SYVU 0} YSnoua sjy jwWe[qoid sow! sUuC,, ‘pomuuNU pue 
spuey sIq UsoMjoq peoy SIY YOO) dP] ‘posse preyony ..‘sox,, 
,, OUT WO I JNoge presy IsIy 
9A NOA Jey} SI s[qiposour Ayjenbo s.yeym puy {1 1,UST ‘ST J],, 
<l TQIPSIOUT § JeYT, L2ouBULIOJIed eB Jo o[pPpiwu op UT,, 
,, SOUBULIOJIod B JO S[PpIu oy} UT “SOX,, 
.<dPareoddesip ays sep] {punoy oq JsnuI sys ‘uoU NOK Op UM, 
“ATUUS[OS poIomsue PIOIJI] ,,“PUNo} oq JsNU Ys dsnedNg,, 
‘pMolo 
sutpunouins oy) Aq poureyureul douayis satssaJdwit oy) ul pon 
-UUOS pIeYyoTY ,.{d10Y St sveq SUTSLIYD JI yse nod op AU A,), 
“UMOUYUL) OY) :SUTUUTS9q S}I DOUIS JOATYS 9081 URMINY oy) 
Opew pey yey} oUO ay) ‘AIOJSAU JeaIS OY} SuIOe] JyosuTY punoy 
uTuLeyoUuopy] yng ‘UrULeYoUOJ] 390dsns [[}s plnoo preyory asnesaq 
‘preyory UeYy) PUTT Jo oUTeIJ OSIOM YONUI B UI SEM OF ‘SuTyIAUL 
ABs 0} yJsZuoNs sy) pey JosucT, ou oY ‘UTUIeYOUO; JO] sy 
 CAUM,, “PreyorY perder , ‘oN yoeeq ouNsHYyo,, 
‘Jolseo ples savy | se ‘pmolo & Aq popunodms sem op] 
..GoJ0Y },UST 9veq SUTISIIY>, , 
‘IOZUIS 9Y} jNoge poyse ATOeIpoUTUTT ay ‘dOT] 
-JO SIOZVULUT SY} OJUT SUTVD PIOIJIA, AUVSSINNOZ FOlIOg NEHA 


ueISIO9g 94} pure 
‘JUNODSIA JY} ‘URWAdI[Og su] 


6L 


.<¢}S0ys vIodO 
ue ynoge ye} INOA IM Op oO} BuIAN Nok avy yeyM UOY],, 

_, SUL O} UD)ST] },UOM OYM UOSIod SIOUI DUO S.dIOH,, 
‘AT[NJMOLIOS JYSNoy} sy pue ‘poysojoid noey ,,j][e 3 ION,, 
(MPT OY) JO UNy oyeul 0} SuTAN nod ore Inq ‘IIs ‘oul asNdx_q,, 

‘APT [NoKY ye Suryzoo] sem pue dn poojs pey pros] 
_ UG SI oueU [eal sTY puy ‘owes 94) oe SISNY] Jo jesuy 
ay) pue ysoys viodO oY) JeU} WY) sINsse ued | pue,, “Novy pres 
..{ysous visdQ oy) Jo preoy ATuTeVIE9 oARY UdWO}USS asolL,, 
“Zul [IWS 
*U2A9 MOYM spesy Woy} yooys uruueyouop, pue preysRy 
_.¢o1oy Josue ue yons savy nod op 
‘UdWIOPUSH,, “SIOSvULUT oY} 0} PoUIN) PloIIY , {ISN Jo josuy 
UL °° ‘ppo Moy jAes },UOp Nox joIsnpy Jo Jasuy YL, 
_ OISN] JO Josuy ou} S,o4 pue 
‘giodQ oY} UI SOAT] OY,, ‘pres oy ,,‘YLIY SI oWeu s fasue otL,, 
‘pur sty dn opeur pey [noey 
“SARI 
0} poyse u90q pey 00) Lay} Jt poysojoid aavy you prnom Ayqeqoid 
Aauy yey) SurppAIOAS WIOIJ POAOUIaI Ie} OS pouses Ady) Ysnoy) 
‘sJodeURUI OM} 9Y} JOJ ‘asInod Jo ‘3d90xo ‘WIOOI SY} SAROT AST[9 
QUOAIOAD OPEL Udy} ‘WIY SpIsog UMOP FS 0} [NOVY poyse oH{ 
“PIOII] ples ,,“Wem 0} WYSI o1,NOX,, 
. QUOTe 31,9M UoyM ‘SdAT] oy aTayM NOA [[92 [1.1 
pue,, ‘prow 0} porfder oy ,,“e1odQ oy} Jo Josue ue Aq ‘soX,, 
‘JQOIOSIP 9q 0} WTY pasIn pey JoI[Ies SUIT} WOYS 
e A[UO OYM JOZUBNS snopayskul oy) 99S ulese plnod sy JI pes 
u90q SARY pfnom sy ‘agouRTy sty Surpury ur djoy Joy sorjod ayy 
UO ][Bd 0} AJessad0U OS WIY 0} POSS I USYM JUSTIOU Jey} IV 
‘QUOSOS 99S 0} BuIdoYy ATSNOTAGgO ‘WY puNnole payoo] [noey 
_.(eiedQ oy} Jo jasue ue yqnop ou ‘[asue ue Aq pajonpaqe 
SUM dERC] SUTISLIYD Jey) WUTeTD NOA ‘AUseYD sp JUNODSTA ‘YV,, 
_ OUR STY 
NoA |[[9} ued | pue ‘jodue ue Aq pojyonpqe sem aeeq ouNsHYD,, 
‘PIO, poyse ,.jueow nod op 3YyM,, 
_ {Sem oys ons UL.],, 
‘payeader ‘uONOUIa YIM Suljquion pue ojed ‘uew sunoA y 
_jSe@M OYys Ins We] puy,, 
., sjosue Aq payonp 
-qe SBM dys JeU} JQnOp | Inq ‘doy JOJ UsAROY UO BUTTS sem 
ays uoym ysnf ‘joe uostd oy) SULMp po}onpqe sem ays ‘soX,, 


XNOAJT U0jSY) Z8L 


pey AuseyD op joey wnoosi, yy) ej snorAgO pue pes op 
ydaooe 0) pey uoos Aa} ‘Ja[pulMs Joy} JO [ey oy UO Woy) 3nd 
IYSTa Jey} [TeJop suIOs SuTuIBe] Jo adoy sey Joy AToyeuNZIOJUA 
‘poysarsjur Apears Ayuappns ‘aou0 3 
powrrepoxe Yjoq ulULEYySUOW] pue preyory ,,jAemAue I [IOL,, 

«« YOU JOU S31 preyye Wy nq ‘jsoys elado 
oy} ynoge MoUy J SuMpAIOAS NOK []9} [].J “OUI SAdITIQ 3,U0M 
noA ‘Zutuurdeq ay) Wo ‘AJo}s adueNs sfoym AuI No I]9) },Uop 
I JE ‘ysnoy ‘Apoyeunqiogun ‘snorsaid st oynurw yoee pue Sutssaud 
SI OUI asneseq ‘splom Moy B YIM NOA BdUTAUOD pfNod | YsIM 
J “oyeys ye st ‘oddityg JoyjoIq poaofeg AW WIM Suoye ‘ppiom ou} 
Ul SUI 0} JsaTeop UOSIod SY} Jo Ajayes SY], ‘OURS U.] Jey) NOK [3 
J Woy oul SAst[aq aseayd yng ‘nod uo SurAey oq ysnuI Ko) yDaqJo 
ot pue,, ‘Inovy pres , ‘ore sJomsue Aw oSueys Moy sz1eAI J,, 

.<GPIVADABIT YY UT Zutop nos 
oJ0M JeYM PUY ‘“s}soyd sjoou! sUO oJOYyM Afensn s.yeyy :asmnoo 
JO., “pres pue “yoo] Jus}UT JoIjoue [noBY oaed ‘pozleys ploy 

.< PIeAoaeld & Uy,, 

«CMT M,, 

«« SOA,, 
..cUTY Uses NOA sABH {WY MOUY Nod og ‘yy poureu 
suoatos Aq pojonpqe sem sve] SUTSLIYD JY} OASITIq NOX ‘ATsno 
“Hos ye) 03 AN s.jay ‘AuseYyD op Motsuop ‘ouOD ‘souesy pues 
“nowy AJUOA) OY) Udy} ‘IaSUIS oy} ISI] ‘OUI Bye aUO sUONSoNb 
OU} SYL} |, “pur },uop nod Jy jJsoys Asnq AJOA ke st ‘SurmsA9 
ouo UI [fe ‘souRly puesnoy} AjUaM) syeojys puke JoZUIS eB s}onpqe 

oym,, “ey sty ysnom) puey sry surssed ‘pres oy ,.“Isoys v,, 
‘unAse oneUN] & OUT pokes MOYaUOS peYy oY JI poropuoM 

pue ‘ouo Aq ouo ‘[novy pue sioSeueul ay) ye payoo] ploy 
< /3UTAIAAS ][9) ‘peoye OD,, ‘pres pue amysod 

ajelodsop & SpeUl oY 3eY) [[2A OS ITY pooysIapun uTUeYUO|] 
¢¢ SUTJAIOA ]I9} 
ILI JO souvsy puesnoyy AjuaM} 94} Yoeq oUI OAID,, ‘Aes 0) pouroas 

yet} YOO] WIs}s B TIM UlULIBYOUOWY 0} pow) preyory puy 
«js WO 
souvly puesnoyy AjuaMm} sJo}s sy SuTUDAD sIyy ATWO asnedeq 

‘O} OY Yonut AISA p.om nq ‘UITY MOUY },u0p om “ON, 
“puey sty 

Ul SYORISNU STY WOT SIOYSTYM 4S] Oy} WIM ‘dn poojs preyony 

«.¢ 18048 BiadO 94) MOUy NOX yey} OT 3 ST ‘UoMIApUAN, , 

<< NOA PJO} 9A,J SB ‘WUTY JO preoy SABY UoUIaPUES sso], , 


ESI VuadO SHL JO WOLNVHd AHL 


<<’ UPA Op 0} SurMjoU sey WUL,, 

., aJ0Y) JosUO] OU st s,AuseYD op JUNOD ‘epunj 

-O1 dy) 0} }XOU WeMopis oy) Zuoze dn pouly [Hs sae seyopwD 
pue ‘s,qjolog ey ‘oserues Mok ofTYM yey) UTe}OO Sj puy,, 
«< OIQIssod s JT,, 

_, Ausey. op 

JUNO? ‘I9yIOIG INOA 0} pu SeNOPIeD 0} ‘preAyNoo UOTJeHsTUTUIpE 
ay} Ur soRrd & pUNO}J },UpEy OYM ‘T[AIOS wT 0} pasuojeq ASUL,, 
. uonuaye Aue Aed }.UpIp J,, 
. (olay) Soseteo Joyo sary alam aly) Mou No< Piq,, 
« SOA,, 

<<6}! 1, UST ‘sIapsJo InoA 
Sunteme ‘epuNjol oy} opIseq ‘aJoU} [NS st Qseled MOA 72X,, 
<«, On $7euL,, 

., 28e}s AIOAD Je SuNTEM 
sosloy YsoJj puly pynom sy ‘JayJeq UsAS “pue—ooUBApe UT paplo 
-op useq pey oynoI sTY ‘ued mod ynoge MouUy UeUTySeOD 9], 
‘Keme yoqg nok aye} 0} sem nok ySnoIq ywU) oseTUEd oY L,, 

6 . SOA,, 
_.(Sjuawoesuele MOA [je speul p,nox,, 
« SOA,, 
_,jaoueuuojiod oy) Joye vod sy) Yo] SYS UST AA,, 
«co SOR, 
ghod 3,Uprp ‘WYy3TUO} ove SUTISLIYD YIM dojo 
0} pouued nox “puru 1,uop nod Ft ‘nod ynoge JVI B Ye} $39] 
‘ysoyS OY) NOGe YSNoUD poye} 2A,9M,, ‘WEY O} pres oy ATfeULT 
‘mory uo soko sty ydoy ploy, ‘UonESIOAUOS sIy) SuLING 
‘JUOWIUSISSe JUSSIN Ue UO YOdaI 
0} SWIOD pey OYM dATII}Op SWIOS }qnop OU sem 9H ‘oUOVOpUN 
Ue Ul WITY 0} poyye) pu PIOITA] 0} poLMY off “seo sIy 0} UMOP 
gues yey) yey do} yno-wlom ‘AuTYS & pue yeOd YOIZ YOUTG ISA 
"Bul passorp AprephSuis ‘ur oureo ueul e pue pouedo Joop oy 
"W JdNLIOjUT 0} 
SOA[OSUTOY}) UOdN 7 USye) JOU pey sooUBsUNOMD JI “UNOS SIT} 
Jo ZuruuIZeq 9y} ye VOpl SWOS USAID DALY J YOTYM Jo “oAneLEU 
onovyd S,jnoey Oo} pus ue ynd sAey ATamns plnom off “MOIA SI} 
poreys A[ZUISeaIOUT POI] ATeSSTUMWIOD sd1[Od IU} Ikws[d Sem I] 
‘JOAQ] B JO PUT posuryuN sy} 
ul poumeds useq oaey A[UO p[nod—uTfOIA poyueyouS sy) “sT[MS 
au} ‘se7IND-solleg—AJ0}s soy Jey], “UOseeI sty ySO] A[o}o;duI0S 


XNOAF] U04SV‘) PSI 


“SIP Us0q PeY OYM ‘sIOYOOTUO snoLMd JO PMOID dy) WIM pay 
JOSUOT OU SBM FTI YSNOY) USAD ‘IOPIIOD IS oy) palojua oy se 
uoos se poddojs useq pey JoSuossoul IMS STY yeU}) UMOUY pey oy 
Jt JISSwaTY WIM paljsnes os useq sAeYy JOU IST plop ing 
<, BOTJOd oY} 0} Suojaq 3,uOp 
oym a[dood Aq suop yom adIjod SuIALY UT s}stsUOd 31 Jey) OZITeAI 
noA se woos se yuoredde soutoseq Ayordurts sy ynq ‘payeotjdui0s 
oq 0} J4SNOY) s.jJ ‘UsWOPUES ‘ad1jod oy} Jo ye oy) SI YoNs 
jJuBysisse Ureu AW Sof] jSUIATZ ‘SUTUUNI MOU Sof] “JUNODSTA OU} 
*JoYIOIG STY UY} OUI ULIOJUT 0} JOsed SIOUI st BUOAUL SAdTIAG 1,UOpP 
] JUSWIOW SIq} Je pue ‘MOU 0} PooU | INg ‘ove SUNSTIYD poronp 
-qe oym Auzey op yunosd sem Ayyear 3 Jt vopr ou oaey J,, 
SJIOM SOTTO UO BIN{D9T SPW] SATEU [Te 3e JOU nq JsoUOY 
STU) Udy) SARS PUL DOUSIPNE PoYsTUO}se SITY 0} PoUINy UY) IFT 
«GH 1, USE OIsnyA] 
Jo JosuY SY) INOge sUO oY) SB YONUI se ysvOT Je YOM st dy 3UL,, 
"wuTY Joye payed Ayres pros ,.jSM 0) Yorq Joy Bulg puy,, 
“Q01JJO SY} JO NO URI oY puy 
«of OY} YO [TJ WOMs J [YO,, 
‘[hoey wo pedeose Ad ssreoy VW 
«, S[OSSUIG 0} PROI oUL,, 
. GPeor yey Ag °° * “sieg Yo] OH,, 
<< JE YET ay ‘AIO Oy) possoJo ATUO JOU OF, 
ee 
Aq weour nod op yyA,, ‘[Noey Jood poyse , {seg ssoloy,, 
<, Seg ssoise A[p[IM 
poysep pue sseLeo sty ov! podumnf oy ‘yst{qeyso 0} savy [IVS 
OM SOTUSpPI osoyM afdood jo Ayorduios oy) YIM posure sem 
yor ‘aouvseoddesip s seeq s]joslowapeyy Joye AjToyerpouruy, , 


..Goms noX aly * * * ‘9q },ued 
Y,, ‘Weoy sty Joao puey sty Surynd ‘pourowl [noey ,,j4O,, 
. jABMe oeeC] 


SUNSLYD yoo} oym suo oy} Say :noA ueY} JayoInb sem JoyjOIq 
mnoA yey} Nod {9} 0} ow MoTTe ‘AUSeUD Op INDISUOTA ‘TTOA\ 
‘Op 0} AX) WYSIW JoWOIq MOA ZuTy}Aue Jo a8ueI ay) pucKaq JOY 
o4e} Jo ‘ave oUNSTIYD YIM odoyje 0} ZuIOs a10M NOA AY S.Jeyy 
puy ‘1 0} posoddo sem oy :uonsonb Au poromsue 9A,n0Z,, 
., A[turey Aur ATWO surOUOD IeY],, 
<.¢deeq I[esrowmapeyy 
surAueu mod 0} posoddo junod oy) },uSeM ‘OW asnox7,, 


S8T VakdO FHL tO WOLNVHd FHL 


_, UBISIOg OU} WJ ‘JOM AIOA MOUY NOZ,, 
..Gnodk are OU, 
‘WI9y) INOGe Ye) O} SUI JURA },USBOP puUe sjJoIDES SFI SMOUY 
OUM Ue ot) a1,noX,, “AJYSHOASJ poo oy ,,julese noX,, 
‘poddojs off “JoTpIeo UIT) WOYS B Uses peY oY 
yey ueyyerse oy) pozrusose1 pue dn poyoo, Apuonedun jnory 
“‘poyse uP 
ou) ,.,AUseYyD op InoIsuOp ‘Isey OS SuIos noA ale aIsyAA,, 
‘AWM SITY ZUTYDOTG ‘ThoeY Jo yWOI Ut 
poddays ATuappns ue [[e} & yng ‘poylessp pouleds MoU J]. “posiod 


XNOLFT U04SUE) 981 


Z81 


uwononpge ue NO polled pue pouuefd savy pinod yuq nq 
suo OU pue,, “URISIOg oY} ples ,.“soueuLojiod oy) je sem I,, 
«MOU NOA Op MOP,, 
«o THY WWAM,, 


bY IM,, 
«JOY §,dYS osnedeq ‘oroy AB}s UOT ],,, 
¢, OBR SUNSUYD djsy 0) Surod wy Zsson3 noX },ue9,, 
«<Q ISPJ 
OS Sulos nod are aloym ‘AuseYD op InoIsuoW ‘uTeSe 99U0,, 

.. NOA 0} Ud}ST] 0} OW sARY 
1,U0p | Inq,, ‘juonedu o10W pue alow ZuTMOdEq ‘[nory pres 
¢, SUL WEDUOD Jey) ssury} AueuI ynoqe MOY 0} WISeS NOZ,, 

., Joyo 
oyi JO yeods 0} st ouO Jo yeods oO] ‘s,ceeq sUNSLIYD st JOI008 
sy asneseq “Yq ynoqe suryjAue pres j,usaey nok adoy |,, 

<<QPUSLY MOA ay S],, “aseIsqo SuNLLUN Jey} sed 
Aem sty ysnd 0) 3urkx Alpnyssaoonsun ‘AjMYSney posziojor [nory 
..d19SUOUT yey) ABIOQ 0} payeysoy Savy J prnoys Aym puy,, 
<, J01098 S YU 
pokerjeq 3,Usaey nod yey) ‘AuseyD op motsuow ‘odoy 1 
"Thoey preMmo} pouvsy ‘ey 
ueyyense ue Suuwom ‘soko users-opel yim ue AyjeMs ou], 
‘TOATY Op ony oy} UO JWoUIede plo apy] e Ut 
POAT] pue UeISIog & SBA OY Jey) Jddoxo UMOUY sem BuIOoU WOYM 
jnNOge URUI SNOLIa}sAUI yey} JNO poyurod pey JoVOIG sy ‘eIadO 
oy} 38 souvULOjiod e SuLMp ‘s0U0 LVHL GauaaWAWaY Novy 


UPISI9g SY} pue JUNOISIA aU], 


Oc 


., Juearos AW, 
‘uel oY Se poyse [noey ,.{snueg s.ouM,, 
‘ULISIAg OY} ples ,,jawoo sey snieq odoy Aquo ],, 
“WULIAGE] yey) YSnoI} WIY popins pey suNsIYyD uoyM sAep sq} 
UI UAD ‘aIOJoq UIdVS IJOADU peY IY Jey} sT[ey Suoje wiy po pue 
sda}s}O0} sTy JO PUNOS dy} Ud}JOS 0} [NOVY poyse UvISISg SUL, 

_ jueoq yey} UT sIVo sTy ‘ADOT JU) 
ut oq Aewi saXo stp “oq AeUl OY 194M BUTT[S} OU SSID], j SUTTIIO 
STY} UT ‘IOOTJ STU) UT ‘TTeEM SI} UT oq ABW oY ‘oIOY} 10U S,9Y JI,, 

-,g90} asnoy ey) MouY nod os ‘YyV,, 
co OyRyT ou) Aq asnoy ou} 
Ul WIIOIA SI YIM JOU S.dy BuTUNssy ‘o[qissod st SummpAUy,, 
..G Mou sn Jvou soy YUIY) NOX,, 
_ UonUaye sTy SuNOeIe Jo soURYO sso] Savy [[,oM ‘oY, Aes ysnf 
$19] ‘aJoy oureu jeu} Avs Jou S.}9J,, “S[fey Aqieou oy} pue sem 
OU) WOIJ SUBD yey) SSUTy~OVIO UTR OY) pUe Jo}e9y) SY) JO SpuNos 
JUL}SIP 9} 0} UdIST] 0} SuIddojs ‘uLISIOg SY} ples ,,jJ9INO,, 
‘P[O9-99I SIOM S$ UPISI9g 9U} SIAC YIM j0Y 
O19M SIP] ‘SIY UI spuey S,UeISIOg 94} Yoo) A[snoouerjuods [nowy 
_ (oueu Ss yuq Aes J uoyM oTTUIS 
},USs0p OYM dU ATUO dy) O1,NOA Udy ‘dU SOADTI[9q NOA Jnq suo 
ou usyM nos ddaljaqg [ 1,upfnoys Ay, jApoyo[duos nod ysnyj [| jos 
S19] jJOOJ B U90q 9A,J “JIS ‘SUIOUTAUOD oJe syUSWINSIe InoX,, 

., Saya o8eys Jepnovyoods ut 
goustiadxe ou pey Jayjo1q INA ‘MoUyY | se Jey se ‘pue suToNpqe 
Jo SABA JUOIOJJIp ase aloy} Inq ‘o[qIssod s_jI Jt MOUY },UOPp J,, 

<<G]E St ‘atqissod jou sf, 
_ AUZeYZ ap INdIsuOJ ‘JEY) SAST[OQ 1,UOPp J,, 

. addipiyg yunod ‘Iayjor1q Aw 
Aq palonpge sem ounsiiy yeu) oul po) ysnf Aressrumuios sorod 
OY], Bui) aIoul UGE jnod 0} Suose [ITM asl] Aus ‘Joy 0} SUT OB} 
ued nok J] ‘poprey pue ‘}YysIU0} Joy puUly 0) pon Apeoye 9A,],, 

_, Wy 0} pue—ioy 0} nod dye} 0} AIL, 
..GOP NOA ued JeYA,, 
., Nok paddojys | Aym s Jey, ‘AuseyD op Inoisuoj “Os Yury} T,, 
_ GUNS Joy ‘uvoW [ {OWI Joy ZuTyjAUe Op NOA ued 3Nq,, 
‘uo JUOM [NOVY ,,‘oTe suOTNUSjUT MOA Jey MOUY },UOP J,, 
“SULIOMSUB JNOYM ‘UTESe poysIs UvISIOg SY], 
gully Mouy nod UsqL,, 
., Yono} 
§ JoISUOW 9Y} paziusooel J,, “Ajdsep poysis oH ,,jJ8U) OyT] 


XNOALFT U0JSV) 881 


O} JXOU WIOOIAIO}S O8IL[ OY} WIJ WOO SuIssarp oy} payeredas yeu} 
uonTed UTY}) Sy) 0} JUSM UvIsIog oY} ‘JOOP ay BuUESOID IOIY 
‘Jol[Jee SUIT} WOYS & JT Yo] [NOeY UsYM Wooq peY }I sv [TNs 
SBM }[ ‘WOOI SUISSOIpP S,SUNSLIYD OUI [NOeY poysnd sy puy 
‘APSOPOUI pres URISIOg OY} ,,‘SOOP ay SB [DM Se ION,, 
<i ][2M AIDA BIodO oy} MOU NoZ,, 
"MIOOI SUISSAIP 9Y} JO JOOp oy) UO SUTyOOUy 
Q10J9q PSI9AOS AT[ensn sy YISUST sfOYM ssoYyM |][eY By) JO pus 
a) JB MOU SEM OPT “Udye) SARMIL pey oY UO Oy) WoI JUSIOTIp 
anor vw Aq JY) SUWIOD pfnod sy yey) UMOUY JOU pey fnory 
"Wd JO 
JUOJ UI WOOL SUISSAIp S ,SUTISLIYD 0} payutod ueisiog oy} ‘pouedo 
ysnf pey oy Joop oy} YsnoIM) O83 0} [NOeY poytAUT BuTARPT 
<<fOSINOD JO ‘Ss aveG SUTISHIY,, 
‘[hovy poyse ,.{WOOl SUISsoIp Yor A\,, 
<, WOO] SUISSoIpP dU} UT 1 
dag] NOA Jey) Jsadsns | OS ‘oyeVOpuN 0} yNoOgGe o1,9M UONIpedxs 
oy) UI NOA JOyJOg p[NoM,, ‘URIsIog oy) pres ..‘yey do} moxX,, 
"SUBISIOg 0} JeY UeYYeNse oy} ‘uoWYsTsuq 0} deo Zurpoary 
OY} :SIOUSIOIOJ 0} SUIMPATOAD SMOT[e DULL] Jey} UMOUY-[JOM ST I 
ynq “yey do} e sormnbor yorum ‘aoueda[9 JO spoo s8e}syoeq oy) Jo 
UONLIOIA & SEM SIU], ‘pouonuou Apeolye savy |] se ‘yey ueyyENse 
ue SJOM UPISIOg oy) ‘Jey do} & aIOM [NORY oITYM Jng ‘osInod 
Jo ‘s}eod poyrej-MOTTeMS BOM JOG UeISIOg 94} puke [NORY 
"yayood JS9A sTY WO, Yoo) oy Jey) Ady UOJOPOYS oT] & YIM 
jl poysoruN uUvISIOg SY], “Joop e Survey soajasuiay) punoy Aow 
‘Tnoey 0} UMOUYUN sasvoiie}s [eIOAos UMOPp pue dn 3uIO03 IoyV 
‘ABM ITO) UO ponunUOS Asy) puy 
"YSIS B IIM ples ueIsIog oY} ,,“poon,, 
« SOA,, 
. GoHeUNT & aI9M NOA JYsNoY o4,, 
66 “OUON,, 
Opes nod yey 0} souRyodu Aue yorye 1,UpIp 9f7,, 
<< ON,, 
.GNO0K aaat]aq BY pip puy [YS,, 
«. ° | SWM SUIVU [BOI SITY Jey) pue ‘sous elodO oy) se UMOUY 
‘oISNJA] JO [asuY SY) sem JOJONpge s,oUTISIYD yey} WY pjo? |J,, 
.«@AT@SSTUNWIOD aotfod ay) [[9} NOA pIp YAA,, ‘Teoy ATprey 
Pinos sy yey) Apjos os ‘wry poyse pue [noey poddojs ueisiog 
oy, ‘durey yews e Aq post App ‘azenbs oqnd e se 31q 
se ysoumye ‘wool Ajdulo SBA B JO O[PPIW oY} UT MOU oom Ady], 


68T VasddO AHL JO WOINVHd dHL 


—noX pouuey s,oy Aes noA ‘sould sty ynoqe ye} Nod ‘Io}suOW 
B WY [[ed nox jUeUr Jey} ynoge ye} NOA Jey 0} Bur[zznd s3],, 
._< SUI 0} DUOP Sd ULIEY OY} JOJ UNITY USAISIOJ 9A.],, 
Qo pouney oy StH,, 
,, O88 Zuo, Wey suIOp poddojs savy 
P.2Y ‘PIP 1 J1,, Alpes pres ueisiog oy , “WY sey 1,UOp | ‘ON,, 
co WHY ey 
JSNUI NOX “Joy JOJ ofl] INOA Ys 07 SuIT[IM o1,noA AYM puv}ssJopun 
},UOp J OS ‘JOY SAOT },UOp NOA yng jyesYy AU [[e WIA ‘sox,, 
_gnod },Uop ‘oveq SUNSTIYD SAC] NOA ng ‘o[qeuIseurt Ares 
-IOAPE J[QLIO} JSOW SY}? WIM SuTpeop 3q [][,9M Jey) JOVI OY) OpIy 
},U0M J :surjAue Joy Apeol oq ynq ‘sU0 JsuTeSe OM} Oq [],9M [ONP 
yey) UT,, “[Noey 0} suodeam oy} Jo ouO popury 3H ,,jJonp & YM 
puy,, ‘sjoysid sty jo sded uotssnoiod oy) Sururmexs ‘uelsiog 
oy) porder .,‘op 0} ynoge o1,9m yey Jsnf st jonp ev suNYysr,, 
‘TeudsIe jeY) JO [BALE Ou} 
kq pastidins ‘inovy poyse ,,{[onp e IY4SIy 0} pusjur NOA oq,, 
.. a[qeyjor Ajayoduros o1,Aou) MOUY [ pue sw Zuol ev 
WO) pey 9A] ‘s[o}sid dsoy) SU SULIQ 0} JURAIOS AU 0} pIOM JUSS 
L, ‘pres oy ,,‘UoRONpge S,sveq SUTISLIYD Joye AoyeIpoUTUIT, , 
‘payelosop pue pousisap A[quodns 
‘sjojstd Suc] Jo ed & sem HW Uy “xOq oy) pousdo UvISIog SY], 
_, TeIJ 0} DALY 9M DUO 9Y} JOU S,oH}{ “JOWLUI },USoOP J],, 
_, WIOOl 
SIy} YyorIeas 0} 9UI0D UOOS [IM AressTuWOS sorod sy ‘sn 0} 
QouRIpPUIY B 9q P[NOmM ‘asMod Jo “Jey, “OJOY SN puUly pue ul sUIOD 
[jam AIOA ABUI DUOSUIOS JeY},, ‘[NOEY pres , “SUI 0} SINd90 J],, 
‘poreaddesip 
Ayyomnb pue [ey ou} OJUT sOURTS ve PoINJUSA JURAIOS SY], 
.. Mo o8 nok 90s suoAuP 39] 3,U0q,, 
<, JoySeUl “ON,, 
..gsnued ‘ul aulod no Mes 3UO ON,, 
"IOOp 94} preMo} poddays 
pue ‘urese pomog ‘a[qQe} SUISsoIp oy) UO UMOP 7 ynd ‘JeOd sIYy 
Jopun WO, xoq PoAred ATYOL & YOO) ‘pamog oH “yey ueyyeTse 
ue ‘URISIOg Oy) OY] ‘pue Yeold Ssuol ve SuLIeoMm ‘poloyUo UeU Y 
“UBISIOg SU} pres , “Ul sWIOD,, 
‘WOO ZUISSaIp 94} JO JOOP 34} UO Yoouy e sem DOI} 
IOV] SpuOses MojJ B PUR ‘WIOOIAIO}S 9Y) WoIJ sued A[S}eIpoUl 
-UII JUSUIOAOU JO spunog “A[PNoy, poysnod usy) ‘pousjst] oH “71 


XNOJa] U0}SV‘) 061 


_ ,, poods Surzeure yyIM soaour pue 
ApUBIsSUL SUTIN) suIZeq JOLT oY) US], “WYZtaMJoyUNO. oy) UO 
A}\auIp 198 UkD puke [JBM 3} JO OpIs JOJO oy) UO az,NOA OYA JUS 
~JOFFIP $31 INQ “joaszo Ss} sonpold 0) OWN soye) IYZIomIojUNOD oY) 
JO oseojar ay} “WOO! 9Y) spIsuT SuTIds 94) UO ysnd nod uayM,, 
“JOMTUI 34} UO Zutssaid [NS ‘poppe oy soUdTIs Joys e JOY 
— ¢,SIQISSOd se O[QISTAUT SB SOATOSINO SYeUL JSNUI 9A 
‘sjade[ au) I9A0 ploy pue Jeyoo oy) dn win], ‘ouop 9A,] se ‘ueO 
noA se yon se yuoy yTYS NOK IJOAO JOD MOA asojD ‘MOU puy 
“aoyy © * * yey INOA uMOp jnd oseafg «°° “xOq May) UT sjoysId 
NO SABI, P[NOD AA jISOYS & YIM Sulpeap avam aM JeyY poH 
0} P[noM,, ‘IOLITW oY} JsUTese puLY sty SUTpPfOY [[Ns ‘uo yum oY 
.< AUSBY_ op Inaisuoyy ‘YY,, “YSne] STUOT ue YIM pres UeIsIog ou) 
<< S,JSOYS OY} JO WIYM MOU OUOS SBM I IYSNOY) NOK aqAeul JO,, 
.{ SUTUIBOIp JO ‘pew Suto oq Isnu 
I 1snoy} | ‘ow UO syoLN ZuTAefd oom sosuos Aur WYZnoU} J,, 
«GOP NO pip yeyM puy,, 
.<E OUI pareoddesip ays 
“JOLT SY} YSNOI) OF },UPIP oYS :1oy MS | PUL ‘TIOpNog ay} Jo 
ureyNS st} pUlyoq “asoy} SUIpTY sem ] [SUI Jo JUOI, UT I prp oYS,, 
. (JOLT sty) Ysnomp) yor, sys Mouy NOK Os,, 
‘Inovy poyse 
.CSUNSHYD oy] ‘IoLTU oy} Ysnomp yno Sulos om ary [Y4O,, 
.. JA SUIP[OIA 10U S.jT ‘ON,, “JOMTU 3iq ay) poyono} pue 
WOO! 94} SSOIDe poyeM OF ,,j[feD sty UO oq [],9M ‘anu e Jey 
UMPIM,, [OOS oy} WO, UMOp poduinf pue punose pour ay Usy], 
‘Joded]jem oy) UI UJoyed oY} Jo JoWIOD sUO UO poysnd oy ‘peoy 
Sty sAoge puey Sl WIA ..iSf if S9H,, ‘poullepoxe oy ,.jqV,, 
[TBM OY) SSOIDe SUTAOU UO JAM SOU Ss UISIOg ou) Puy 
¢. WH JOY SUTYOO] UW.],, 
<<¢284) Sulop Jo Aem ev pey nok 
Aes noX },Upiq ‘wry Joye UMOp 08 $.jJo] jJOJSUOUT oy} OL.,, 
‘peay SIy SUTUIN} INOYPIM poyse UvISIOg oIY , {904M ON,, 
<<{08 $.30T,, 
‘sousTIedUT IPIM SuIyJoes ‘[noeY pres ,.jnoA Joy Sunrem uL.y,, 
“SUTYJOUIOS JOJ SUTYOO] 9q 0} poulses ‘Jodedyjem oy) ysurese 
OSOU SITY UJIM ‘pue [OOS SY? UO pooj}s oy UOYT [eM Surry 
sfoyM ay) dn yoo) yey} JOMTUI 3Iq sy) ayIsoddo [Tem ayy 0} 7x9 
3 ynd pue [oo}s eB 303 0} JUOM aH “A[dal OU OpeU UeISIOg SU, 
.JSUNSHYD Ul 3 punoy J uoym sJTedsap 
0} OW sAOIp yey Ayid s[qQIpoiour owes oy) NOoA UT puly 7 304 


T6L VaddO AHL dO WOLNVHd dHL 


* “WIY 0} Jomod a[qepruioy cures om SuNNQEMe pue ‘ArojsAUL 
SUVS OY) WIM——AUTY Jnoge Sul 0} poyye) ounsuy MOY Seu], 

ce ges ‘sioopden 

JO JOAO] OU}, SUBST yey) oUTeU e Aq. poyeo sem oy ‘Ayunos Au 
Ul ‘sloopdey oy) pue ‘sJoop sup ‘sTTeA OY} JO [OUD UI S,9H],, 
« GSTTEM SU} JO [OQUOS UI Soy USYL,, 

_, UIZaq 9M Se UOOS se sn dojs ABU oy 3nq,, ‘A[P[Od pres 
UeISIOg Oy} .,‘aIqIssod AyueUINY s.jey) SUTYJAIOAS OP [],9M,, 
"+ * BUTSHYD “Is ‘ouNsuYyD puy jsurumy jou S3],, 

.. TEdpaq 
ye WOO! podiy oy) pue ‘sioop poJpuny e& WIM Yyora ‘soqgouy, 
Jo saoevyed posoes oy) se plo se wsTueYooUr & ‘UIa}SAS JOOP-J3190S 
JSa[CUIIS 9U} S.I] *JOJ SuUTOOT sem J yey puNoj | pue ‘soouvseod 
-desip snowajsAw sty puoXoq pue ‘wy puoksq poyxoo] | ‘ON,, 

<dNOA 0} FT MOYS oY PI,, 
_, WIa}sAS ou) YIM 
Tell Wy SMOUY sy asnedeq ‘} poyoodsns savy Ae OH,, 

«694 PIP 
‘KBEM SITY) UMOP sUI0D 0} AQ) p,oM MOUY 3.UpIp oF ZAUA,, 

., Wa3sXs sJOUA oy) Poydo]qG 
pue 343IaMJajuNOS ay) Jo odor ay} yno Ajdutis oAey AeW 9H,, 
..Gueoul nod op wUA,, 

i 7 TOsya SuUTYJOWIOS 

aq ABU 11 IO,, “‘UMOI] POLLIOM B OJUI POPFULIM peoyolO] s ULISIOg 

OL .,’Syom Josuo, ou Buds oy) Jo ‘AjsnJ st wistueysour st} 
ye) SNOTAO S,jJ jJUOMEdUIT oq 0} Ysnous su) DALY NOX jWeAA,, 
‘AQuonedur pres jnovy , ,j SUN} JOU S_)],, 

., Jutod syt uo do} sutuurds e uey) soul 

OU SYSIOM 31 4OAId & UO JYSIOMIOQUNOD eB Aq poouRTR si ‘AAvOY 

MOY JoyeU OU ‘TEM JO WOES B UOYAA “JOSUTZ OPI] Sty ATUO 

ZuIsn ‘oUO WIM WIN) ssnoy s[OYM B oyeUI UD PTIYS Y jJYySIOM 

-I9}UN0D B YIM JUOpP aq UD JEYM JIQIPAOUT Sj] “WIN) [TIM I 

pue ‘joaid & UO 9q Ut} [IM I “JUS OY} O} SIOJOUIT[IW WOU Maj 

B DAOU! UY} ‘SIOJOUNT[IU MJ B ISI JOM 3} 90S [][,NOA sfTyMA 

apy e ur ‘Ayjnjareo yoyem noX Jy,, “[osId & ploy Jey) suo oy} 

‘JoyJO sy) WIM JOM 9Yy} UO BuIssold ponunUOS pue pueYy suo 

WIM UWIY 0} dSO[O JnoeY pond ay ,.{NoA pip ‘orseu Aq ‘Jos 

Aq poAoul PI YUU) 3,UpIp noOX,, ‘parjdol uelsiog oy) ,,‘aSINOd 
JO ‘][eM Jo UONSES Z,OYAM sTy) saste1 yey? suo oy) ‘AYAK,, 
‘[NoeY poyse , .{JUSIOMIOUNOS WU AA,, 


XNOAF] U04jSV‘) c6l 


“ssouyiep daap 0} 1431] 

IYSUQ Wor Apdnigqe woy) Surye) pue jUOUIOAOUI S[QUSISOLIT $}I UT 

Suoje usu omy ay) Zurkues ‘poum) qt ‘sSurpying ot[qnd ut pooeyd 

U98q MOU SARY Je} SIOOP SUTA[OASI oY) JO sUO S¥T] pou 

“S}YST[SSOIO Jo are[s BuTZzeEp ke ur ‘powm) JOM ou) ATuoppns “say 

SY 0} [MOBY Mop UPRISIOg oy) ‘puey sazy sTy WIAA ‘owes oy) 
PIp [nowy “jorstd sty pastes oy ‘s0uTU oY) Jo yuo ur SuIpUEIS 

<< {200YS 

0} Apeas oq pue ‘[njameo aq ‘Mou puy,, “ou0} [nFWMoU! A[ze[Nsus 
B UT pres uvisiog oy} ‘ABM IOyIO OU st aJoy? ‘WYySMO],, 
<. A@M JOyjO SWS UT UMOP O8 $ Ja] [SUTIN JOU S,)I 908 nNOZ,, 

“urese ][s oured0q Wt USY) ‘puod v Jo sovyins 

pojddiz oy} uo a1om JI Jt se poxmyq sem pue JaaInb 0} poaursss 

UONSeJor NOY], “JOLIU ot} 0} payutod pur juayis oq 0} WIY pouon 
“OUI UPISIag 94} “Ppowoouoosip ‘UNY ye psyoo] mMory se puy 
ss PIP oy “SOX,, 

«GY PIP “Wop pling },UpIp oH 

{uty ATUo Aago sfjem oy op AYA “sty [[e pUe}sIopuN 3,uOp | Ing 


C6L VaddO FHL JO WOLNVHd dHL 


vol 

Joye Ajayerpourut Zurpying ay patdnooo pey sjussimsul oY} JOy 
‘sIe]]99 OY} Ul peur useq pey ey} s[[I9 oy} 0} ApOoIp siouosud 
Tray) oye) 0} srapref ajqeua 0} sUNUIUIOD seg oY} Jo skep ou) UI 
poyeald useq pey sessed yey “WY nq oUOAUR Oo} UMOUYUN su 
Zuo] & JOJ SBM OUSISTXS asoyM oSessed yosoos posedoid Apeolye 
ue puNoy pey YU yey) ‘I9AOMOY ‘UIeOT 0} Joye[ SBM OH “J[OSUTY 
yur Aq poysttqeiso A[snotisjsAur useq pey 9yNOI Sty} Jey} ysnou} 
[Nowy ‘ples pey ueIsIog oY) JYM BULOQUIOUISI “puy “9099 
-OUUT Jay an3iNUI pue sstidins Aq Ye} poos s,ouNsUyD sxe} 
0} sTTeM SY} Ysnomp yUom oy UY ouTED Aljensn YL ABM 9} 
U9d9q ALY OS[P ISNUT I] “SISNIAY JO [AsUY IY} JO ISIOA 9} PeMO][OJ 

sys uoyM ABM SIU} OWIOS pkey sUNSLIYD ye) JJSsWATY plo} [hoey 
‘spreoqg JO J] OY) UO 9UO 9Y} 
‘ATUOSVUL JO OPRUl SEM JYSEI SY} UO [TEM SY], “JOOTF pue *“SUTIIOO 
‘sTTeM OY} JOAO POpl[s YSIP Pol sp] YL “SJWSWOAOU! SI [fe 
ZUIMOT[OJ UBSOq OY PUR ‘URISIOg 9Y} 0} pasuOjag WioyUR] oY} IY) 
peziear Appornb oy yng “Aulus yoIoos eB Jo AuTMios ot} odeoso 
0} YSnoy) se ‘yorq poddoys APSAMOUNSUI OH “WoyUR] popeYys 9301] 
B JO MOTs ou Aq poyYyst] ATUNIp sem [NoRY Jo JWOI UT ssouUyTep oY) 
Ajuappng “Suryjoutos 10; Surdoys ‘ssouy sty uo Suoje SUIPI[S WIY 

pxesy [NORY “JUSUIOAOU! B SYLUI 0} Poploep UBISIOg aU} Ayyeuly 
‘SSoUJep OU} Ul pouSToI DoUDTIS UayoIqUE “YIeoIq Joy} SuIpjoy 
‘SJUDUIOUI MJ B JO] [[S poo}s usu OM} OY], “JOAId B UO VOTO 

Ie[NoIIO sy Bunoyduros Aq pasojo pey [jean oy} “Woy puryoY 
‘Nowy 0} payeodal 
Ayyoinb urisisg ay) ,.jJ00Y4s 0} Apeor “dn TOLsId YNOA ATOH,, 


Ic 


AYNIYJIP OU pey [noey ‘saoqge JOpLUod oY} UT ssouyJep Yor ou 
JO jNO oWOd SurABY yng ‘WIP AIOA seM WOU) puNore yYSIT oU], 
"SOIOA SITY SB [JOM se Sdo}sj}00J sty preoy Ady) asneseq ‘suon 
-sonb Suryse pue yoy pue yorq Suryyem AMUsprIAS sem prox 
YoryM Ul WOOL apy e 0} dn poy osvomejs MoUeU e ‘AqIeoN 
Woy} pry yey) uUonTed & puUlysq oJOM UvISIag ay) pue [noey 
“wry pouonsenb pey oym Aressruruioo aorjod 
OY) “PIOIIA] JO Jey} se pozlUsooaI oY J9IOA & pIeoy AjoyeIpowuT 
oy pue YyyNoU sty Joao poddejo sem puey s,ueIsJog oy) Inq uO 
-euvjdxo ue Joy yse 0} payueM [NoeY “WIY opisoq UMOp Az] pue 
“298 JOU P[Nod [noeY Jey) suBsUI sWIOS Aq Woy} sAoge Joopden 
oY} Peso]d “JOO]J oy} UO UMOP SI] 0) WIY poJopso ‘uNY IWBned 
UBISISg SUL ‘TBF J[SsuY Jo] pue ‘preoy oy ..j03 3o0],, ‘spuey 
yIoq HIM Joopdey sy} Jo aspo oy) Woy Zuny pue yaUy 00) oFy 
"PIeMOS oseq & SB J[ISUITY popsesor savy prnom oy ‘suoTUSIUT 
S ,ULISI9g SY} ]NOge s}qnop YIM UsAd ‘pojEyTsoy pey oy jy ‘suvow 
JO Sof0yd B SAR JOU pIp oY pue ysood Aue ye SUTSLIYD YoRror 
0} pey [nory ‘olouIeyIN “[oysId we WTY UdAIS sAeY JOU pfnom 
oy ‘[noey jsurese suvjd Jojsturs Aue pey pey oy Jr ‘Aye puy 
‘yoodsns pouleas OU pey [NOeY UI UMOYS pey oY JsoJOJUT OU) pu 
<< JO}SUOW,, SY) JO ayods oy usYyM oUINUAS poulses pey UOTOWIS 
SIH ‘OUT) SAISIOop jeu) Je Yq Jsurese wy WIM sem uPIsIog 
3} JY) DAST[OG 0} d}¥}ISOY 3OU pIp oy ‘aINyUDApe sIy Jo A1a}sAuT 
ay} pousdssp AyUo pey spiom sty pue uy noge Surmjou MOUY oY 
ysnoyy uaagq ‘Ajojo[du0d uersiog oy) pojsny [noey ‘ApoSuens 
"I}99} STY UIMJAq [O}sId sIy SuIpfoy ‘MozToq IeT[I0 9y} OWT 
umop dis pue sutusdo syj Jo o8pa suo dud ‘urese joouy uelsiog 
ou Mes oY USY], IYI] Jo oxenbs oy) premo} popin3 sem [nory 
<< OP | SUIMJATIOAS Op pure OUI MOTION,, 
‘Surpeolq sty presy pue wiy opisoq wy 
OF OY VOUO Je [[e Inq UvIsJog oY} MES JOSUCT OU aH] ‘BIddO oY) Jo 
SIE[[SO PayYySi] [THs oy) oyuT pouado ysnf pey MOpUIM v JT Se Se 
I “JOPLUOS oY} JO JOOTF OY} UT WYST] WIP AI9A Jo arenbs & Mes pue 
YO JUTE] & presy [NoeY “W1o,ULT SITY pousyJep oy ATUOppns ust} 
“IOO]J OY} UT SuryJowOs ye A[pider SuryJOM 9q 0} Poliaes ay OWT} 
B 10J “JOO[J 94} UO UMOP UIaJUe] STYy Ind pue jfoUy UeISIOg SU, 
‘AWD 94} puokoq seore 0} suon 
-eue[soid AJoyeumumeyjur soy) Aled 0} aJam yey) suUOOTTeq Ie-}04 
oy} 10j yutod amyedap e ojut do} ay) pue ‘uostid 9783s & O}UT 11 JO 
wed Jomol ot ope pey Au, “1 LS] ‘ST yore] JO UoNSoLMsuT ot) 


S6r VaidO FHL dO WOLNVHd dHL 


‘premsoy poddoys A[snorxue uesio 
adid oy} 0} JISIA 38Y} UO PlOIgIPY YIM suIOD pey OYM sUOATOAT 
< (ePONe,, 
‘Kpoqg yey) poztusooal ay :UOHeUTe[OXe UB Yyorq poy Jou plnods 
pue Apog ueumny e Surysnd osye sem oy yey) Mes OFT “JOp[Noys Sty 
YA I UO Zurysnd Ajsnosos1a Aq 71 pouodo JoseueUl oe}s OY], 
_.guado 0} prey Os SABMIR II ST "POYDO[Q 9q 0} SUIZOS JOOP SIL, 
‘JOSCULUT OSES OY} 0} Pes oY ,,{910Y JoNeW oy} S.jeyAA,, 
"PoysIsol 
11 nq 31 Usdo 0} Pet plorpAL “se[[IO puooss oy} wo dn cures 
yey) aseosTe}s op] B OJUT pousdo Joop e yey} ples sary 3A 
‘JOMSUB JOU PIP Neponeypy ng ‘wrp e Ut 
ySnoy) se sie[[Io oy} Ul popuNosal sd10A Ss JoseUeUT O8eIS OU], 
A AeponeYy jweponey,, 
"soovyd I19u} 
UI JOU 9JOM SJURISISSe STY PUB SSddaI STY UT JOU sem OY MOU ING 
‘goueuojied AIOAD SULNP Ssod9I JEU} 
UI Sem ‘JOrYO OU) ‘Ireponey| “NO pow alom Aoy} Jey) HO} MES 
pue sjUe}sisse ST 0} SIOpIO dAvs sy aIOy], “Joyo MOI9-SuNYysTy 
oy) JOJ poAsosal sem xOQ S,Jajduioid oY} opiseq ssodol VW 
‘sodid Aueur sj Jo osnedeq uesio adid oy) poyyeo sem 
yeu) snyeredde yetoods e Jo suvow Aq ‘ousos e Jo SuNYsT] oy} Joye 
pue o}e[nZoz 0} pasn sem ussorpAy ‘se3 Aq powysi] [MS sOM Josi 
98e)s OU) pue ZUIP[ING BSUSWIUT SUT, “S[]9q SI1}D9[9 JOJ pUe S}DajFO 
98u)s poy] UTe}IO9 Joy AjUO posn sem APOLNOe[o ‘OU JeIP IV 
‘OISNUL SUTYeUI JOJ JOU SEM ULZIO odid ay) “osnoy eiodo ue U}IA 
uonseuu0S ul Ayjeroodso ‘yury) WsIW suo yeYyM Oo} ATeNUOD 
"I 0} 
}XOU SUIOOI SY} JO 9UO JO URTIO odid oY} UT S1OJOIOY) SEM OH “UIT 
0} 31 OARS JoSeULU oSe}S OY) pue ‘Wa}shs BUYS oy) yoge UO 
-CULIOJUL PapueUep SF{ “JOPNOT ouTedAq UsY} SdIOA S$, PlOIf 
(2H, ‘sumpAroao urefdxo 0} prom suo pres sy pue 
‘soIpog oY} Uses OsTe pey 9H “UPRISIOg ot} pasodsiym ,.j19INd,, 
"WOY} JO 
QUO poyono} savy plhoo jnory ‘UTY pry yy) UoNNIed oy) Ysnomp 
puey sty ynd 0} a[qe useq pey oY J] ‘pecidsyno suLe ITSY} UTM Ae] 
pue SIIejs ay} JO WOYOg IY) 0} Pa[[or pey sIyIO OM) aU} -pIesy 
2 P[NOS 2d10A S,ploIA, YOM puTYyoq Joop oy} 0} dn poy yey 
QsvorTe)S SPI] 94) JO Burpuey MoIeU oy) UO AR] Woy} JO 9UO 
“SoIpog ddI} MES OY USM WONCUIL[DXS JUTE] & 
yoeq pjoy OU plnos sy puy ‘ssury) Jo sodeys oy} Jno SuryeUs Ur 


XNOAIT UOJSVS) 961 


ye poyoo] oy ‘urese zou-sourd sty uo ynd Suraezy , (Yeo snourey 
JoY INO 39] ENOPTED usyM ISU oYL,, “PION ples ,.{ATTeOU,, 
<<QNOA },U0p ‘Jey) Joquioulel NOX j;yeoI19 
SNOW JOY INO JO] BHOPIED USYM JYSTU oy) Sem I ‘SOX °° * IYSTU 
oY} SBM IT ° * * “MOU 99S S.Ja] ‘OSe SUC] AIOA 3, USE II ‘TIOM,, 
“Ppiiom oy) UT safe [NJNNeAQ JsOUT oy) 0} UdAD Udddey Ud Jey) 
SuIyJOUIOS ‘poyysisreou seM oY JO} ‘Zou-soUId sTY Jo sosuaT OU) 
BuIdim Ay[nJores “ploy, poyse ,,{Jey) sem OSe Suoy Moqy,, 
«« XOQJINUS SIY Spisaq 
“SSOOOl OTT SIY Ul SuLIOUS ‘jYSTU sUO WY ZuIpUTy sJOqUIOUIOI 
J ‘eisdQ oy) ut dosjse uolfey sey Ieponey, oun ySIIT oy) ,UST 
SIUL,, “pres ‘yysnoy) doop Jo uoNeorpur Je9[ & ST Yorum ‘puey 
IAS sty JO MOTOY SY) UT UTYD sty Burpjoy ‘IaSeueUr o3v}s SUT, 
‘AyTeotwopses ples ploy, ,,“UONeULIOJUT JeU Joy Nod Yue], 
<< Ule[dxo },Ued OM Jey) oJOY SuTUoddey oe s3ury],, 
WOTJOWIS YIM po[l} SOIOA B UT yeods UTUIeYUO;, presy pure 
—-9I19Y} USES 9q P[NOD ssoej My) A[UO—suIpur] oy) aaoge Ieodde 
Soorj PoAUISIP SIOSVURUI OM} OY} MES ULISIOg dy) pur [NoLY 
.¢ dE ynoge uoTuIdO sUIOS 
saey ysnul nod pue ‘YUIY) NOA yey pres },uoAey OYM sau ATUO 
oY} O1,NOX {UsUIoPUSS ‘sTY) [Je 0) Aes NOA op JeyAA,, “sI0M AT) 
o1OYM WOT 99S JOU P[NOD UvISIOg OY} pue [noeYy woYyM adood 
0} ayods puke WoO JINI] Oy) preMO} pouIN) of] , ,jSsouTsng oSueNs 
B Sq jesuens,, ‘payeoder ay puy ,,'J0}00p viadQ oy) Joy puss 
jSUO SBM SIDY} JoAa JI ABM pleY oy} SUIJOUIOS ZUIOp Jo ased 
$.JeY], (o38}S OY) UO IOSUIS & JONpe 0} BOpT ppo ue YUM yNg “107 
-ONpge oY} JOF SuNyJOM useq sAeY 0} peYy UOSIEd yey) pue—maro 
SUuNnYsT] 9) YM posojysoyur uosiod UMOUyUN sWOS yey) SnolAgo 
S.J] jSSoutsng Sues & s.1],, ‘pres ay ,,‘daojse punos ar, Aou],, 
"S}SOY9 II9Y) 0} Jes STY Ind pue Wey) 0} UMOP JOM ploy ‘syUe} 
“SISSY S TepOneyA] PozIUsooaI JasvueUl O8e)S OY], ‘WIOUL] Pal OTT] 
B JO MOS op UT ‘SITES St JO 1007 OU} Je AL] SOIPOG JOyIO OM], 
«<fJOOT,, “NO pols 
pue ‘sdojs oJ0ul Moy B UMOP jUaM ‘dn pousyYySrens ploy 
<< 1QIssod a3nb sj] ‘possnip useq s,ay oqhew udy],,, 
‘JoseuLUl V8e}s 94} Porepop , OUI) ISI Oy} S31 ‘OS JI,, 
¢< SUBS OY} JOU,S J] “YUNIP peop s,oy,, “pres oy .,‘ON,, 
: -kpoq 
[T23 St} JOAO pouvsy ‘Sumpjou Aq pestidins sem oym ‘ploy 
"JosvueUl 93e}s Oy} pouBoU! , jueUT JOOd “peop S.oH,, 


Z61 VaadO FHL JO WOLNVHd SHL 


‘s}0]Jo 93ejs SutoNpold UI pasn aq UBS WY} SIE[J PISLI JO Solos & 
WLIO} ‘suIedq UO Jo ‘syioddns sUO}s JO UOT UO BUNsSaI s}sog *S}O[S 
pue ssoopden sy) Jopun syJomoUreYy osIOAsUeI} oFe BIOY], “S]Ted 
WIM paoejdar ore JOO] 98e}s oY) UT sINd oy} JeY) yWdaoxe ‘AroUDS 
JO} SJO[s pue sioopdey sit WIM ‘oeIs oy Jo ueyd op sonpoidar 
Aoyy, ‘Way Jo oaly ae oso) pue ‘owWOsaMe ore sIe{Je9 aso], 
‘yid ssaTwioyog B se SuTUSIYSIIy pue 
mous yaddnd ve se ZuIsnure ‘ssXqe Ysip[iyo pue ‘oull[qns “onseyUEy 
yeu) ‘sueT]s0 visdQ oy? jo wed oynurm e posdunys Ajuo jnovy 
‘suoslid sse[Z Moy) UL ssoTUOTOUI soweTy Jtoy) ‘sdure, parsyjeos 
MO} B JO IS Wp oy) Ag “seI[99 puooss oY} UT aom ASU, 

_ OUl MOT[OJ pue ‘soUaTIs ‘MoU pUY jqeep pue 
ay] Jo Joyeul & sy jsurmpAue Joy JoMsue },ued | JO ‘Aes [ se op 
yng 0} JUeM NOK JI yoyo INOA UT Wynd UBD NOA ‘Fast Joistd ou} 
Joy sy ‘Juaq We MOA WIM ‘Joystd & ary 0} ynoge aJaM NOK JI se 
spuey ino Jo auo SuIppoy deoy 0} st Op 0} aAey NOA yey qysu 
INoA Jo puey Ya] INoA YA BuNooys Jo uonsonb ke jou S,I],, 

‘pum S [NORY UT UOTENIIs Oy) AFTEIS 0} 
QP] pip A[snoraqo yorym ‘Aydai asueNs sty) Opell UvISIod OL 
., puey Yor AU YIM JOOYS },Uvd J,, 
“‘papoouos 
ueIsIog ou) ,,‘puey Joyo moX ur joysid mmo ploy usyL,, 
_ Apayernsoe yf Op 0} 91GB 3q 3,dOM J “OOYs 
0} OAeY J JI pue,, ‘Inoey pres ,,‘A[ssajasn puey Au sort} Wf INg,, 
‘pouoddey yeyM Joyeur 
ou ‘orloy) 1 dooy pue uontsod yey) ul yoeq puey sty ynd oO} WIY 
plo} UeIsIog OU, ‘Pip UeIsIog oy) se “Jooys 0) Apeor ‘saA9 sIy Jo 
yuo ut joystd sry dn Surpjoy urese you} nq “os pip [Nowy ‘dn 
pues 0} [NORY PoUOTOU! UvISIOg oY) ‘UOTE aIOM Ady) USYAA 
“dA0qe 
98e}s oY) UO SJUSWOU SOUL Moy Be JOF PBoy alam sdojs}OO} 
Troy) Udy], ‘siTeys oy) dn wy poMoTfOJ [TB SIoyjO oy} pue Io] 
pros “ABME SoIpog FeIy) OY} Poles spueyoseys opyM poyoyem 
‘pojoodsnsun [[Ws sea ooucsoid ssoym ‘uBIsiog OY) pue [noeYy 


‘yoyood 

sIy Ul xoqyynus oy) ynd oy pue ‘ploy ples .."[ OP YS,, 
., Jgnus soyxe} usyjo oy 

‘sox “J[QYS Je} UO XOQIJNUS STY S,dIOY) :YOO'] “Scop oY ‘SeX,, 
‘Ayenseo payse oy ,,{jJNUs Soye} JTefoney OS,, 
‘PUT STY peor 0} SUTAN arom oy JI se ‘ApUoyUT JoseueW 93}S 9U} 


XNOdIT U0jSVS) S6L 


BuIsopo JO gof ay) uaard ATqeyeyo pey yuoWIoSeueUI oy) Woy 
0} spuRYyosejs JULIO; JdaISp ‘SIOSO[9-JOOp ot) BIOM 9S} JO4 
‘BSO[D 0} SIOOP pul} 0} 3UIAN ‘spuey poyRnansjno 
YIM pIVMIOJ pouvg] ‘Iqey Jo 3no ‘sJayjo ‘Suoye soayosuoy) Zemp 
Ajaoreos P[Nod way} Jo swWog *AJousos eedo Jo suaping JOULIOJ 
pue ase Aq jUeq US plo ‘UISy) sAOge puke uIOy) ysed SuTAOW 
somsy mes AY], ‘yelj B pUlyoq [Nowy MaIP UeISIOg su], “ssou 
-yJep oy} Ysnomp) popi]s smopeys pue ‘presy alam sdojs}00,7 
., Wd) 99S 0} 
sjueMm Aresstumuos sorjod ayy, ja9e}s oy) UO sJOSO[O-JOOp ITV, 
:suTNOYS sem 
QUOSUIOS ‘WISt} SAOGY ‘do}s Woy) speUl 9d10A pnoy e ATUappns 
‘[OIsId & ploy JoZu0] ou 
3 Yy8noy} ‘ooys 0} Apeor Jom 31 Jl se poster puey uMO sty doy 
oy MOY WY Surmoys ‘Kem YS oY} UT puey sty dn Zurpfoy uO 08 
0} WITY posin pue [NoeY 0} Yoeq pou) Udo oF] “a¥e} 0} pouaes 
uvISIag oY} suoNNEdald aJOUI oy) ‘JUoM Ady) UMOP Joye] sy], 
‘sdurey juejsip maz & Aq poyysi] [Hs oom sdays soy) pue ‘ey 
-[90 py) oy) poyoeer AY, °° * ‘UMOP pue UMOp JuoMm Adu], 
“SSOUYILp ssoppus oq 0} 
poulses Jey OU SurIsuNId *Ioop oy} ul poreodde Ayfeuotseooo yeu) 
S9fOY oY} JO SUO OFT BuTTTeF JO Ys oy) UNI cAeY pfnom ay ‘wry 
JO JUOJJ UL poMoUar ATJUBISUOD sem JEU) S}YSTOMIO}UNOD pue sodor 
JO YIOMJou oy) YsnomMp ssed 0} sJqe Us9q pry oY JI UDAS puy “JIS 
“UNITY a[sueWAsIp 0} a[qeuN ‘qoM s.Jopids snUesIT yey) UT YSNed 
useq SAeY pinom af ‘sedos pue sureaq Jo ofquinf snorZipoid amy 
Aq days Ataao ye poddojs useq savy pnom oF {ypUTIAQe] SuLop 
-[IMoq JY} UT WY JNOYIIM sUOp sARY 9Y PrNom yeyAA “adoy ATUO 
STY SBM OY VY} J[OSUUITY SUTT[O} ‘WoY) pueysiapunN 0} SuIAN nowIM 
suononysul sty surkago AMoLns ‘ueIsiog oy) PaMmoToy fnoey 
" "+ "et poumo Aoy) FI se SIEI]IO oy} YSNoI} sAour sysoys puy 
"oJoY} JoyjJes SUOUAp JO SesNIOYS pue ‘WISY) WO] STI [Joy JO Samy 
SY “Wot OUT WMOP Yoeq Sood pue sieyyao oly wo dn souioo uejes 
“SOLIEY JURIPeI OJUT SOYOIIM snoapry pue ‘syueTes Suno swospuey 
OJUT POULIN) are USM PfO APAOIs yep “YOM sJorueD Jo Apmys Zunso 
-I9UI ay) Ul Z pue ‘x “KX Aes ‘sIe[[I0 oy) WOT] St If ‘syOaIyo a3e}s 
qe[Noejeds YIM SoUsOS UT SIOULIOJIEd Jo souvIeaddesip uoppns su} 
ynoge Sulsutiq pue ‘sousds UONeULIOJsueN SuTonpoid ‘A1aUs0s Jo 
saooid adie] SULOANSUBUT JO} posn are oY], ‘SIeT]O ou) UI JUepuNge 
QI SJYSIOMISJUNOD PUL SOYSUTAA “SYOOY UOIT WIM JOO yoed 0} 
Way} SuTdeuUOS Aq ‘papsou. voy ‘AIITIQeIS poppe UdAIS ore AU], 


661 VadadO AHL JO WOLNVHd FHL 


“SSTLUSIP 0} JUBM JOU pIp sy WOYM spueYyosejs Plo JOJ sJasojo 
-J00p SB sqof Jour |[NS payealo oy Jey) J[OSUNTY BUI Pjo} PrEy]IeH oped. 


O} WHY po SMALL ., .“eqeies Ajayopduros a1,Aou} MOUY J pue own 
Zuo] B sjoysid asoy) pey OA,], ‘OUI 0} pres oy yeU},, “YSnoy) oy 
_ {AOQUIDUIAI [,, “TJ 0} JOpIO 9Y} JOJ powem oUIT} Jey) JO Sisifonp 
YOIyM UT UONIsOd oyj—soo INOA Jo JOIF UT I SUIPfOY [TS om 
noX jI se “I aNly 0} Apeor poureusor puey mo ajryM yoyxood moh 
Ul [oO}sId INCA ZUTALST UI PoJSIsUOD Jey} BSUOJop-JfoS JO POYVOU 
Ayeurpioeyxs oyj ye posidins urese s0u0 sea [NoeY “} JOy OUT} 
OU SBM SIU) asned0q ‘31 JnOGe dJOW SuMMpou pres oy YsnoyL 
‘UONIsOd oures oy) UI puey sty doy [MS oy 3nq 
‘Te]Joo pity) oy) ut peddoys pey Aoy) usyM ueY} Joyes Surpoey oq 
0} poluses oF “WJeaIq STY JYSNed UvIsJog OY} ‘Je[[So YT ou) Uy 
. j2np B ym ‘Tis ‘fonp e yYyM “YY,, “e[foo IZ sy}? poyowar 
AAU, ,, Sites ssou) UMOp ‘ABM STU} ‘aloH [Weop pue ofl] JO JoyeU 
® S.jI ‘Saka IMO Jo UO, UT puey MOA dooyf,, “FeI[S99 YMOJ ot O7UI 
[noey pe] oH ,.jAppjornb ‘umop 08 sj] j39y90d moA ut oystd moA 
DABY] “AIlJ 0} JOpIO OY) JOJ ZuNTEM oIOM pue [aNp e IYSIZ 0} JNoge 
alam nok jr se ‘soko Ino Jo yUOIJ UI puey MOA PfOH °° * “AGL 
‘g10U We INO pusg “jooys 0} Apeos ‘dn puey mod dsoy jAUNY 
(08 SJa] “atoy Avys OM JI SN pury [fam Atoa Avur Aay) 3nq,, ‘parod 
-SIUM UvISIOg OU) ,,‘JOJ SULOO], o1,Aoy} JeYM MOUY 1,U0P J,, 
‘MUOSUIOS JO SUTYJOUWIOS 
Jo yoreas ul A[SNOTAgoO ‘WITY punoze SuTyVAIOAe SuTUTUTeXS “UMOp 
pue dn 31 poaoul pue usoyuR] op] e poles wloy) Jo yorq “dn 
QuOS pry SI9sO]o-JOOP oY} YOTYM UO sITe}s oY} UMOp ZuTWIOD MOU 
aIOM USUI IayIO “Buoy JoF spnyrjfos sey) Aofus you pip Aoy} ing 
“srayunooUS 
g[qelisopun yons Woy WOY}) PoARs peY UOTESTSOAUT SPIO‘ 
‘qUQUIOU OY) JO. ‘UoeUR;dxe ue Joy yse 0} Woy) suNdwold 
pue dn woy) 3uryeM ‘WoyY) JOAO payquINys savy IYSTUT UST OA} 
aU] ‘a19y) IY SIU ou yueds pure ‘AjISsod0U JO ssoUIZe] JO no eIodO 
oy) UI poXeys ‘ssafawoy AyTeNUEsse Suraq pue Op o} sJOUI SuTyJOU 
ZUTARY ‘SIOSO[D-JOOP 34} JO SWIOG “Sassou}IM oWOD;EMUN JO Woy) 
PL IE aSNedaq JUSPIOU! SIU) JO pels sIoM [NoeY pue UPISIOg SY] 
‘QOIOA OY} JOJ peq AIOA ore SjyeIp ‘WIOIJ UIOD 
Aoy) o1ayM Joyeul ON ,,’siaddoys-yerp,, pofed osye arom Ao} 
(uoy} BOUTS poIp [je savy Ady) SAdI[Oq J) SAep osOoU} UT pue ‘sIOOpP 
QSO]D 0} 938}S ay} MOTAq PUL sAOge SUIOS pue SUTUIOD ATUe}SUOD 
o1om ADU], x SUIPpINg oY} JO Jsol OY) pUe sIeT[ed 9Y} UI SIOOp 


XNOUIT U04SV5) 00Z 


“azour ou Aes ued | ‘prom Au UO ‘pue SoorAJos 978s Jo ZuTyRods suoy Ue | 
"SIB[[SO SY} OJAI SINQUSA 0} Palep ‘ojduExe Joy ‘sSuusAd UTES UO ‘OYM asOy 0} 
S9dIAI9s SnOIsIpoid Yons pasopual ‘eledC sy} Jo sIE[[Io ay) UT SAT] 0} JJOSUITY 
SUTUMApUoS sTTYM ‘oyM amy poyeo[d Zuuopuem ayy Jo Ajeuosiod [nyjesn 
pue suNnsaiojur Ajamenxe oy) 0) preBar WIM AdoIoes uTejUTeU 0} ‘JoSeURW 
viedQ JoulIOy ay) ‘preypley ospeg postuioid sey Joyne oy) asneseq ‘1 
Ssond 0} savy [[IM Jopear ayy, (“2010d esodQ oy) ueY) asIom YON) ,.jasIom 
YONUT sUOSWIOS $3],, AQ JUBOU UBISIOg Sy} JeYM Jopear ou) [Jo} ApIoldxe Jou 
TEA JoyNE sty ‘TeULoUge Wises SOUNAUIOS Jey} SJUSAD JO asMOd su UT pouTe|dxa 
Aj[euLIou aq {IM JWNOSTe FRSOIsTY st UI osjo SUMPAIOAS YSnoy], ‘woNLEdde 
yey} JO uoHeueldxe JoyymMy ou sald [IM JoyNE oy) ‘UeISIOg oy oy TL 

“WOY} 0} SN 39S JYsTU ‘sIeT]IO 
ou) WpIM soustedxe ou SuIARY ‘USWA oy) Jey) Jeoy sem azo asneseq 


SEM Jf SUI ploy oY “Ay preyeH oped poyse | Woy AA “UMBIPYDIM us0q SOUS 
sey JusurommNbol yey, “aoejd Furze) sem soueuLoysod ou usy UoAd eIedy oy 
JO Ajazes oY} JOA Yoyem 0} pasmnbar [[Ns oom UsutaNy oy) ‘skep som Uly 


{uoneurdxo Jou} 
“INS OYA pardar UvIsIag SYP , ,jeSIOM YONUT SUOSWOS $.37,, 
‘nowy payse ..{901[0d eisdCQ sy) WJZ SUOEMIOS 11 ST, 
., SOUJO sioseueul 
94} 0} OU oye} 91M} SeY pue su SMOUY UOSIod Jey j]]ed asojo 
B SUM JEYUL,, “Pres pue Jorjal Jo YSIs e poARoy UeISIOg SU], 
‘IOUIOD & O} OUTS I UOYM Woy) SUTOTY 
SOUINOUIOS pUB s][eM 94} 0} }xoU SuTARIs ‘ABME PoAOW J] 
‘yey IF IOs eB pue “j00J 0} peoy Woy 71 
podopoaus ey) Yeo]d & a1OM FI Jey} 908 0} YSnous Apounsip 3no 71 
SACU P[NOd Ady} JO] “sooej ITY) UO Yeo[d syt Jo yeorq UeM oI) 
yoy Ay, “Wisy poyono} Jsourye 31 yey} Woy) 0} JeaU Os Aq passed 
‘smOpeys ou} UT MopeYys eB ATUO ‘UIOJUET OU SulAues ‘omnsiy 
AMOpeYs B :UOOS 00} JUSWIOUI B JOU “JOOTF By) UO UMOp Ae] KOU], 
"UBISIOg OY} PorodsiyM , jUMOP 19H,, 
"WsY} SIOJOq SSoUyIep oy} UI SUTAOU seM 
ZUTYJOWIOS ‘][Ns puejs pue dojs 0} wNY peuonow oy ATUoppns ng 
"SITe\S OY} PIVMO} Youq [Novy po uelsiag sy) Usy]L, ‘soynunu Suoy 
SAT] Seo] Je JOF ‘prens Nay} uo “SuNTeM poojs udu OM} SU], 
#<, SPUNOI Itsy) SuUTyeU UoUToMy a1, Koy) 
-SUIOJUL] YJIM USU 9SOY} JO PLT 9q UOOS [][,9A\ [I SZITeOT 0} JOU sn 
JO pidms moy,, “ouoyopuN Ue UT pres pue WY 0} yORq sUTeD UOY) 
‘UMOp ou0d ysnf pey Aoy} aseome}s ay) Jo sdajs may ev poquIt{o 
‘sem oy ory Avjs 0} WIY SuT][o} oIMjses e opeu of “UON 
“e309 ye s}duiaye onsen sty ur wy poddoys ueisieg oy ng 
« CUISY} BSN 0} BINNY 9q Pfnom 3 spooj sy JE spoysid apquiyor 
oAey 0} WY Op Hf Soop poos yeyA,, :uonsonb ve jrasumYy yse 


TO0c VaddO AHL JO WOLNVHd 4HL 


QUIOD 0} poUzes HI yey) ATUO mouy AoU) ‘ouTULIA}Sp jOU Pfnod Ady} 
amjeu ssOyM pUNos B Jvoy 0} uBsoq Ady} ‘oUTT) oUTeS OY) TV 
“Way 0} Jasoo 
pourses Mou jf osneseq ‘Koy) uey) Joysey sdeysod pue ‘oo} uni 
DARBY ISNUI I PUY “Woy pamo]joy pey I “Woy puIysq SBM Jdvj 
Axary ou) yey mes Aoy], [nowy pip os pue punosle poxoo] oH 
_ UO MOU WOIT sITeyye 
sty JO yno Aeys pue sUOTe WITY oAKa] 0} postUoId J Ysnoy UoAs 
‘TreX) SIyY UO aJ,oM SMOUY OY SQABU Ng “SxLT SIP Aq osnoy oy) 
JO YLT SY) 0} peo 3,USSOP SPIS SIU], “WIY UIIDU0D },USSOpP spIs 
SIL,, “UBIsIag ou) pres ,,‘ABM SI SOUIOD WOpfes oY 304,, 
‘poddoys Aoy} ‘son 
-UTU BuO] ‘3uO], Woy) 0} patios YOTYM “spuodeEs MOJ B IOV 
"Way} B0jaq 
pouodo jeyp o3essed punoisiepun Suo] oy} UMOp URI Ay) puy 
_,sakd Nok Jo yo ul puey Mo dsoy pue ‘ouloD 
jAuIos wey) ofes Joyeq—oloy Woy Aeme und SOJT «°° JOA 
QUO sIy} MOUY },UOp J “suo stp you ynq ‘syoLH sty Jo Auew 
MOUY [| ‘“MOUY JoasU nok ‘WIY TIM :opis oy) Woy JO “pulyoq 
wioyy asuidins Aq sn oye} Joyoq ued ay OS,, “PaNUNUOS UeISIAg 
ou} ,.“JUOIT JY} WIJ sn pIEMo} d0ej Jey) SuTpues soy oqAeW,, 
"USUI PouayySUJ OM} OY) preMO} 
‘Kpoq & Noy “WYSIOY S,UeUT B Je SUTAOCU! [TNS sem “UOUWap 
Zurzelq & ‘[]oY Woy aoey eB poulsss YOIyM ‘ooey Atoly OL 
_,jSM9 INOA Jo yo ut W dsey ‘oureuU spon 
uj jsoke INOA Jo yOIS UT puey InoA dooy jJ9dI0J 1,u0q j[NJoreD 
‘sn 0} W JUS S,oy oqheUT Jnq ‘ay JOU S.J] LOWRTJ Jey) Sey, 
iat mes Aypeor off jAzeio 7,UseM UeUTONY Jey, “3 Uses AJ OWN 
JSIIJ OY) ST SIYT,, “SOA MOT B Ul PoUlTe[OXe UvISIOg ot) ..j4O,, 
‘0Ry S.UBUI B Jo odeys oY) UI WELZ & OYT] POYOO “ssouysep 
ou} Ul ‘pue ary JjO saved 3] jApoq pv imoyjim Inq ‘qysIOY S,UvU 
& JW Woy) PIVMO} OUTED JEU) SdVJ AIOLZ B ‘SOA jONJ JO BoB] B “SoBy 
SnouUTUIN] B sem HI INg ‘soXo Uspjos Jo Jed v ysnf jou ‘soRy BJOUM 
Y ‘USUI OM) 94) BI0FEq poreodde sovj oINseJURy B UO ulese 90u0 
JONpUOS JO OUT] JeU) Surye}s poystury A[soseos pey UvISIag UL 
7 {S949 INO JO WOIF UI 
‘joysid B any 0} NOQe oom aM JI Se puRY & dn Surpjoy [Qs o7,0M 
ssarun peop oq [],aM ‘Scop oy JT ‘sn puryaq dn doais Apusyis 
Aeul oy yng “ssouysep oy) Ul oseyuRApe MO s,Jeyy, jsoho Uspjos 
sty cas sXemye [],oM ‘sn puryoq dn su0d 1,Uss0p oY JT 29H,, 
| -G}t SWM ‘ay °° * 1,USeM JI,, 


XNOLF] U0jSUE) COZ | 


"yj99} pue 
“SMB[D “JooJ JO [[NJ SoaBM ‘sump op] dreys pores yey) soaem 
apy Sururesjs oy Aeme ysnd 0} ‘s8oq s19y) 0) uMOp poaour 
spuey MoyL “olf 0} Jopio oy} Joy payem Aoy} se out) yeu) Jo 
sist[anp Aq Uoye} uonIsod oy) ut ‘soXo toy} JO JUOIy UT pueY ouO 
SUIpjoYy Uo 08 Aoy} plnod JoysON ‘ured pure ‘1e9j “IOLIOY JO SOLID 
UIENSAI JOSUO] OU P[NOd ueIsIeg oY) pue [nOKY “A[qusiseM ‘soy 
diay) dn paquil[s pue joa Jay) useMjoq possed sonra Op] OWL 
"UOOU 99eJ-Alaly 94} Jopun ‘uoouUr oy} Jopun Surueocy soaem 
“Jystu apt] o1om Koy) ‘Burs st spn oy) usyM yoesq oy} Suoje 
ALINOS JVY) SOAR 94) UY} Jaysey ‘soveM poeLny oI] ssopunos 
Aq ssouysep ou) ul Suoje poms ‘Suom) ev UI poAOW Adu], 
"WIOIF OWED spuNos a[dh[nW oY) sey MoUy Mou Ady) esnes0q 
“FOLIOY YIM pus uo Zurpurys sey Joy) yoy Aoup ‘TTem oy) Isurese 
pousyely [TAS “poojs Aay) oroym sovjd oy) Yyoeal 0} ynoge sem: I 
[HUN “sstou SH WIM ‘Woy preMo} Zura0d yday sovy AISI] OUT, 
"aoey AIO} OY) MOTOQ ‘ssouyZep oy) UT 
SULLINS SpUNOS Jo]]eUIs Jo spoipuny jo dn opeu A[reg[d sem I IOJ 
<, SNOIOUINU,, SIOW , ,‘SUIUIIS},, DOU “IOWSAT, ‘IOpNoy, sw090q 
pey YoryM “punos Jey) Jo asneoaq ‘Mou ‘ATTeIoedso pure sovy AIOTy 
a[qisusyoiduioour yey) JO asneoeq ulay) 0} ueddey 0} SUIOS SEM 
yey SuIMOUY JOU ‘TVA oy) IsUTeSe soaposuroy) pousyeyy Adu], 
‘Joyyey ou AeMe yorq p[nos [nowy pue ueIsiog ou Ayyeuty 
iit TM Wsno0Ig 
Wf yey) punos SuTeonbs ‘Surysyeios ‘Zuneis oy) Sursneo sem 
wYyM puy {Scho BuLIE}s ‘poxly sji WIM ‘peoye IWSrTens “sey 
OS SACU! WI plnod Moy puy {Isea] 32 ‘Apuoredde—jt yoddns 
0} Apog & ynoyyIM ‘dn y pjoy o} SuMpou WMH ‘WYSIoy Ss ,UeUT 
B ye ssouysep oy} Ysnop opl[s uoou pol yey) prnoo mop 
‘Pol pooyq st i uayM 
WOO oY} JO YNou pue ‘esou ‘sofa ay} YI] o[I] e—diy] IaMoyT 
TepnoMsTwes ‘Suldoomp e& YIM ‘osse] yNoU oy) pue poyoolo 
STMT & ssou oy) ‘SuLTEys puke punoI oom soko ayy ‘ApTeapD 
Somnjeoy Si dS MOU P[nos Ay] ‘Woy UO ZuluTes ‘Woy preMo} 
BUIAOUI UO JOM FI ING 9oRJ AIO oy) WI, AEME poyorqg Aau], 
“preogyoe]q 9Y} Jsurese sadeios yey) ouO}s [Tews & suTEJUOD 
qeYS Jo soa1d eB usYyM poonpoid osye soueWos 31 yey) puNos 
s[qeieaqun A[sulziuose oy} Suryeul ‘preoqyseiq & uo SUTYD}VIOS 
1am s[rewesuly Jo spuesnoy) jr se ‘punos Zune 10 Surpeonbs 
B SBA J] “OBJ SUB B JO odeys oy) UI oWeT oy) YIM JaIROU 


£02 VaadO FHL JO WOLNVHd dHL 


(‘saoded s ueisiag oy) :souasazay) 
‘KuSeyD op JunoostA pue uelsIog oy) UI UOIsUayordde [ngured yons pasnes 
yey} 9UO OURS oY} Se URUTON ay) Aq parlojuNooUe sly JO peay otf) Jey) IQnOp 
OU 9q Ue aloy) ‘UOTUIdO AUT U] “JUTey UBUIATY OY} SPeUl 31 Jey) SUSJUT OS SEAL 
‘SUOTJESIOAUOD IMO JO SUO UI OW PjO} pIvYy]IeH oIpad se *yeq) JOLIO) & “peoy 
$,UeUl Jey) Jo souvseodde oy} Aq URWONY & UT Pesnose IOLA} ay) Uses sARY OM 
“UMOIP SOATOSUIAT) Jo] Aoy) ‘poyeorxoyuT ‘aroym JoquieYyo pUNoIsJopuN ue OFT 
s}eI OY) pe] 9H “S89] Hoy) uo jnd uswaysy owos yey) Soin] 94) 0} pojoeMe 
are ysiy se ysnf ‘poyoemje alam syel YOryM 0} JUS JoIDaS B PaIOAODSIP 
pey uew oy) Jey) JYSNoY) preypeEH oIpog [°9}0U SJOye[sUBI[—'syer po|eo 
are sloourp juopnys ‘Sue[s youel,y uy] “ssuno], ,Sioouep oy) OJUT poyTUpe 
gsou) 3dooxe ‘eiodQ oy) UI sJeI SIOW OU Us0q SARY DIOL} “Ua sdUIS 
“syaom om AJOAO sTey[I9 oy) YSno) Sure Aq adINoos yey} 0} pus ue 
ynd pjnoo ay poulteps oy URW Be yM—ooud YsIY Joyjel B ye—jUOUID0I3e Ue 
0} sued JUOWOSeULUT oy) [HUN syeI Jo soseaes oy) Aq pasneo sem Jey) oseuTep 
punosZ1apun yeosS ay) MNogE ‘JJJOAA SLolg oWepe|l JO sWOY oy} UT “TTY.P 
de> ye Aep uo ow pjo} ‘Jaseueut eiodQ JouLIoy oY} “preypleH oped. 


<< UNITY 0} YT} [],9M 
‘Wy MOUY NOA 9dUIS pUY “dy [IM OS PUY ‘sn JeoY [[,aY4g joys 
]].oM “sT]TeM ot} oyeys [om ‘oteU Ss oUNSLIYD [feo [[.oM “orSU} 
O1,9M USYAA [OAL] OU} OL jOYL] 9p 0} OF $s jor] Loroy} 303 om TIM 
UdYAA,, “Nowy poyse ,,{UoU) ‘ayy oy) Woy AeMe Ie] 9M IY, 
_ SITTIN Oy} JO yed sIy} 0} SoWIOD IOASU 
oy ‘OU NG “SYOL s,JaysuOUL oy} JO JoyJOUR sem } WyZnouy} I,, 
‘paySis OH ,,OJoq WY JOU! JOAOU | Jey) asueNs sy puw “yeIp 
Dy] peyoo, oy Aes 1,UpIp oy jng,, “UeIsIeg 9} Pls +. JOU 
-VI OY) NOGe OUI Plo} YL yey} poloquiower savy pyhoys ],, 
-Zuljquien [[Ms o1em Aoy) ySnoy) ‘urese AToory Sut 
-yyeoiqg ueBaq URISIag OY) pue [noRY ‘JoLOY Moy} Wo posvo[sy 
"SASIOU SSOPUNOS oy} [Je ‘syer 
Jo soaem Suryeonbs ‘Zurquirjo oy) [ye Wry WIM Burye} ‘preMJoj 
powny sp “UNITY Jo peoye ssouysep oy} SUNYSI] sem oy “1o\sey 03 
P[nos oy yey) OS ‘MOU *d0RJ UMO STY SuyeUlIN{]! ‘JjoswIy preMmo} 
pouwin) usayury] oy) 3doy pey oy “WTY Jo WOIJ UT sjeI Bt} Ud Sy 
0} JOU se OS ‘alOjog ‘“WloyUR]T popeYys sIy YIM sUOp ysnf pey 
IO|[LY-3eI Jy] ey JO YNsol & se JayYSI] oWeDeq Pesye JOPLUOS 
oy} o[TYM SMOPLYS oy) OJUT poystueA ATUSPpNs 99ey AIaI} UL 
_, Syed AU UIA ssed Ul Jo] “JOp[H]-JeI SY} WJ (SU! MOTOS 
1,U0p ‘op nok JOAgeYyM PUY jSAOW },UOq jaAoUl 3,U0q,, 
[WIdy} 0} syods 31 MOU puke ‘INO PoLo Ady} USYM Woy} PIeMO} 
pawn pey sory Ajo oy} Ng “URWON ot} ‘uideg JueUs NTT] 
oy] ‘SuNUTe] JO VBIOA OY} UO SIOM UvISIOg dy} pue [NOVY “sox 


XNOAIT U04SV‘) $0Z 


wUOY Ul ‘poysmsunxo Sulog sem yey} 810} punosopun Jo pury 
B JO MOTs BIH proae oO} pey Aoy]L “Burssed oq WSU syJOMIOEM 
SY) WOI, USUI oY) JO oUO JY) presze sem oy JonquoyM Apdnige 
Buiddo}s pue ABM spy SuTySes ‘[HORY Jo JUOI, UT poyeM oF 
. SOOUINJ OY} WOT, SUILUOD oily Aue 99S 1, UOp | ‘payedo] oe 
SYIOMIOVVM oY} oJoyM Wed sy) UI,, ‘pres oy ,.‘oq JSNUI 3A, 
“AYUIFUT 0} INO YO}aN}s 0} poulses suTIe0 paypnea 
MOY], ‘Sopsue JYSU Je I9YyJO YOR Passold Jey) SIOPLUOD ISvA OM} 
ye sAevl Sy pouty off “Ulese WIojUR] popeys sty usdo 0} pey Ff 
«GoM JIB aIOYM ng “urese saXo MOA Jo JOIJ UT pueY MOA ssTeI 
pue ‘03 S.jo‘] jaseinoD “owWoD,, ‘ouo} Je[NSuIs & UT pres UeIsIag 
oy} ,,‘punoj Joaou sem odol oy) pue poSuey sem oy ‘sox, 
.<@Pasuey puNoy sem OYM pUBYsSe}S Joryo ay]., 

«. Pop yonbng 
ydosor oiaym Apoexe ‘a1oynT] ap 10y a7 Woy sd01d jos & pure 
yELF & USAMJOq S,}],, “SULIONCJ SOIOA STY ‘URISIOg Oy} ples , ,‘o0uId 
yOVx ay} NOA [][9} [].J “MOU soy) Yoeq OF TT.9A “ABME UOALID 
Ajoyeunyioyun Os o1oM OM YOTYM WO ‘eT pA) oy) Wol,,, 

GOP] 9} Sutssozo 
NoyIM ayeT oy) Aq ssnoy oy} OUT 393 OM Ud aIDyM pUy,, 
«{NOA JOJ 9WIOD BABY },UP[NOM | ‘1 Jo odoy ou pey p,] JT,, 
«JY Op 0} odoy aM uED,, 

¢, JE SUIMOUY S.JO}SUOU! OY} INOWIM dsnoy JY) OJUT 393 0} 
S$ .JI pue ‘oul sAdT[Oq ‘JOY SAVS UBD OM ABM UO ATUO S aI0q],,, 
“UNTY Wed 0} Poly UeISIOg SUL 

<</40U JOJ SIP OUI 39] JsBOT Je ‘OUTSLIYD 

Joy SurpAue op },ued nod Jy,, ‘ode pue souaneduil YsUsAS] YIM 
SUIJIOS ‘poyse [Novy ,,{9194 SUIOp aM ae JeYyM Ut) 3Ng,, 

<< DOIOA S_.UdIIS 
OY} ‘SUISUIS SOIOA JoJBMJOpuN 94} Jesy NOA JI sIea MOK dn dojs 
0} Ins 9q PUY ‘ye] OY) Jou O8 JOAON :odrApe Au oye] * * ' 
OUI} Ul OW pozIUsOdeI },UpeYy IJa}sUOW oY} J] “Oy) parry Ayeou 
SEM J[OSAUL [ °° * “O[QIIIO} SI] “OYLT OY} SSOID 0} porn A|dumts 
—SJI9SO[9-100p plo ‘spuvyose}s. JOULIOJ—UIese UddS Ud0q JOACU 
pue poreoddesip oaey oym ajdoed oy) Jo ouIOS Jey) prerye Ul] 
“popsens [Jom S.j1 pue ‘oye OY) SSOID 0} DALY NOA jsILJ ‘SE osnoy 
BY} BISYM DUO SY} ‘SIOYS JOJO SY) YORI 0} B[GQe Udeq JOAOU SARY 
J[osAU | ‘sosuajop sty [je paloujes soy soy S.jey} osned_gq, , 

..¢}0u AYM,, 
<< OJB] OY} AQ asnoy oy) OJUT 103 IJOAOU [TOM ‘SFL Oy} 0} JUSreNs 
08 aM J],, “UBISIog Oy) Pres ,,jp[fyo e ey] Suryey aJ.noK,, 


SOc VdaadO AHL dO WOLNVHd dHL 


uo Sure ‘udy} pue [I0UY 0} [NORY pouONoU! ueISIOog IY] 
"Je][OO psy} Sy} poyoear Ady} [HUN ‘oouaTIs pue ssouyJep 
oy) Burziunnios ‘days yous ye Sutddojs ‘y1 poquiljs AoUy, ‘UMOp 
guiod pey Aoy) yorum Aq aseorie}s ap] 3u} 0} [NORY pa, 9H 
_ OSNOY SIY OUT 303 0} AI} 0} BUIOT 31,9M JSNedEq ‘90U9TIS ‘MOU 
puy ‘dn puey mmo dooy 0} ans 9g,, ‘pres oy ,,jjnjoreo,, 
‘UJOJUL] SIY poudyJep ulese UvISIOg SY], 
‘SUIPTIng ou) Jo wed Joddn sy} UI JOOTJ dy} UO sdo}s}00F jue} 
-SIp }daoxo Sulyjou ‘SuIyjJOU pIesYy oY Ng ‘AjJosva poudjsI, pure 
[Je OU} JSUTeSe J[OSUIY MOIY) [NORY ‘SpJOM SURISIOg dU} IV 
‘"yYOry) spred [eIOAIS [Tem JoyjoUe puUe ‘JUDAS Jo IOAR] SNOULIOUS 
ue ‘]JBM YOLIG & Udy} ‘UOSsTed B® sB }ING [JBM Jory) & Jo posoduios 
SEM YOIYM ‘BUISeD dIQNOp dU} OpIsUI po}oONsUOD USEq peYy ssnoy 
SNOLIO}SAW S$ YU JU) BJVOIpUI 0} pouses oA P[NOM osINjso3 
S$ ,UISIOg 9U} ‘SUIP{INg 94} JO sIN}Oo}TYOIe oY} MoUy OYM oUOAUP 
OJ, “ayxe] oy) Aq dSnoy oy} Jnoge [noeYy 0} oyods oy se poddr} 
UBISIOg OY) Jey} SUISYD IOUUI ISNJ oY} JO [Tem 94) UO SLM I] 
‘yeah SJOUM & YOO) I 
SUIP[INg JO YIOM SU], ‘SUIsSeD SuIpuNoLNs s[qnop ke pring 0} pey 
yo yore oy} ‘ssoudurep woIJ pajoajo1d oq 0} pey [eJOW puke poom 
Jo sommonys pue soseaues pajured ssoym snjeredde [eotneou} 
jo uoe]]TeIsur sfoym oy} SuNJoddns sem oy) YM 39e]09 yDaTIP 
UI ZUIDg Wo, SuIpiIng oy) puNore [ye Jovem oy) yUoAoId OF 
“poyOnysuos oom qn} au} 
JO S][@” oy) pue WOy0g 34) MOY MOUY 0} Japeos oy) JO} [NJosn 
aq [[IM Wt sdeysod puy ‘qn} ou} Jo [jem e& UO suIddy) sem oH 
dye] oy) Aq asnoy sy} Jo yed aq Aevul [eM sit) 
‘UDYPISIW JOU UJ JJ,, ‘pres pue [jem e& uo podde} uelsiog oy] 
“OFP] 
e daoy 0} pey Ady} ‘OSs USA “OUIRC-ONON JO SIOMO} 94} JO JYSIOY 
oY) Soul JTey e pue suo Jo uJdop e& puke aJANOTT oy) JO preAyINOD 
oy) SB vole sues OY} UJI JoyeM Jo Apoqg & oUISeUIT UkD aUO ‘jnO 
peduind Asy} yUNoWe oY) Jo vopl Ue WIOJ OF *197;eM Je) [Te JNO 
aye} 0} pey Aoy) pure ‘seg Jo wed ajoym yey) Japun Avy yey) IayeM 
QU} JO [OAS] Sy} MOTEq JooJ ATT Snp sJopying sy) yey) SuLIaprsuos 
‘indop yeolsd & ye SIOJOIOY) pue ‘qny dU} poyyed sem Jey JO WOO 
oy} ye uddq savy Udy) JsNUT Ady], ‘ose}s 3) YROUDq sIeI[IO 
snoisipoid oy) Jopun yorq sures Ajfenpess Aoyy Aem sty) uy 
‘AyANded JsIJ Joy Jo ou oy) ye ‘Aoumofl ysJ Joy Sutnp 
posdu[3 pey sunswyD yey) suOWAp oy) peztUsodaI [NOVY ‘I Jo 


XNOJIT U04SV) 902 


"JQSO[D-100p JO puvyosejs swOs Aq Udyxe) UI9q DALY 
ysnur Aoyy, ‘punoj useq pey Apog posuey s,jonbng ydosor azoy ysnl ‘asoynT 
ap 104 aT Woy so0Id jas 94) pue JET] oy) USOMJOq pooeTd arom Ady} ‘sIoded 
S$ UBISIOg OY) 0} SUIPIODOY “puUNO] JOAOU BBM so0Yys JO sed OM) SUL, 


. NOK Yosed [IT :prese oq 1,00q 

‘Ques OY} OP [[,NOA Udy], “osnoy sty o,UT doIp pue,, ‘pres oy 
_,{OU0}S 94} JO 93po 94} WoI spuey Aw Aq Suey 0} SuIOs U,],, 

"[novy Zuroey sem oy yey) Os ‘soouy sty UO TNs ‘punore 
ABM OU} [Te pousny us) ‘aPII] & PIBMIOJ POAOU UPISIOg dU], 

eg, OABO] OM USA WOU) 103 T].9M “T]TeM 

OU} JO Opis Joyo oy} UO Wy} Ing,, ‘[hoey 0} Woy) pspuey pue 

UMO SITY JJO YOO) oF] ,,"SCOYS INOA JJO dxV],, “pres oy ,,‘astou 
Aue 3uryeul ynoujyim spre yeJoass umMop dop 0} sary 9AA,, 

‘UIOJULT OY} pousyep 

pue ‘WITY JopuN SUTJOWOS pouTUeXd ‘preMIO] pouRds] ‘UIOULT STY 

pouado oy Udy], “WY punose sou0}s 9) SUI[IOF WITY preoy [noey 

‘JI YBNoIY) duos pey oy se UOOS se jsowTe poddo}js URISIog OY, 

“MOITeU AIOA SBM JOY SY], “SUIMOTIOJ YIM polsnes oq 0} 

pey ‘IsIJ 03 0} poyueM pey OYM ‘Morey “yorq poddy 3 usyM [eM 

OU} Ul JOT PeYy sUO}s OU) Jey} B[OY SY} YSNoI) poyMelo sy ‘soouy 

STY UO [INS ‘AjoyNTOSal puy ‘[o}sId oy) peyooo of ‘ouIes OU) OP 0} 
[Novy poyeusis pue joy90d sty Woy [o}std sty YOO) uRISsIog SUL 

‘Tre 

oy} UI sJOU B MOU SBM BOUT, “yorq poddy ouojs e puy “WoO 

SUISSOIP S,dUTISLIYD Ul [Je dy} UO passold prey sy se ‘jUOWOUI 

eB JO} # uo A[suoys ssoid WY MPS [NORY ‘pu se1J SITY TIM 

[TBM OU} Iof UBISIod SY “WIY puryaq asojo [noKY YM ‘aioyvT] 
ap 104 aT Wolly sdaId jos ay) pue JET} oy) UdOMI0q poddis oF 

“pura 

sty dn spew pue poppou oy AljeuLy ‘ueisiog 94) pasoyjog Ajsno 

-IAGO MOJS JU, “SPIBOG OM} W99M30Q YORI YU} YSNOI) Uses 9q 

P[Noo UJoUL] & JO MOS UIP 9Y} aJayM ‘Ie[[ID puodes Ou} PIeMO} 

dn usu) ‘[noey ye poyoo, oH “aeIsoy 0} powises oy JUOWOUI 
® JO. “‘pousjst] pue poddojs ueisiog oy) ‘soouy siy uo [INS 

‘yonbng ydeasor Jo Apog oyj—Avp suo posuey punoj 

useq pey yeu? Apog vy ‘Apoqg e JojJ aoeds ysnous jsnf-sem oid} 

WIdYy} US9MjOq PUP ‘JeTy eB SEM doIpyorq sm) Jesu puR ‘aloynT ap 
104 aT wo dompyorq pouopurge a3] & sem [eM STW] JsuTesYy 

[Tea yorg oy) poyouor Aot~—uontsod ponnbar 

oy} UE [FAs puey Joyo oY} YM—puvy suo pue sooUy Jol} 


LOC VaddO AHL tO WOLNVHd 4HL 


"UOHIdII Jar 

yey) ‘[Je ye Zurmou yey) Joao puey sty ue] [NOY “poysopjar oq 

0} pollaes yeu} IYST] JO Uesq SY} Inq SuTyjOU ‘[][e Je. SuUTIVOU MES 

Aauy Sty) 0} 1XOU puke ‘JoNJOUR puke ‘Jeo] e Udy) ‘soyoULIG oulos. jo 

wed mes Asyy “Wdy} JO JUOIT UI SEM JEM OZITeOT 0} US OM} OU} 
JO] prey sem 7 ‘JEWS OS SEM JYST] JO YSIP oy} osNedeq “ISI IV 

‘SUIIIOO 

oy} OJUI poreoddesip pur [jem 3Yy} SuoTe ssO1 soyouPlq Sj] ‘SOALZ] 

S}T UM ‘SOATTe TS 9q 0} powsos ey} 901} & JO YUN oy) 

payeuruinyT yt ‘Apasuens ‘puy “s[yeM ol} JOAO WIOJUL] SITY Jo YsIp 
pal api] ay} poaow oy ‘Ajorxue mou Aq poddis Ajuoppns 

‘Suuoppnys ‘porjdar ueisiog ou} , ‘SUOT 
OS JOJ poyoo, sem yeu} odol s.ueW posduey oy} oq Aeur 3q,, 
"Nowy poyse , .{JeyM SJeUM,, 
"‘pomnuLmMu oy ,,josse, qefung ou,, 

‘JOUOY WIM ABMe HI SUNT] pUw PUOSOS & JO} II PouTUeXS 

9H ‘pioo jo pury e ‘surmouros dn poyord pue umop jusq oH 
“IOO]J BY} 0} [Te OY} UMOP PSAOUI UIO}ULT BY} JO SABI OY) puy 
. iJ1@SHt Aq pasojs sey ouojs oY,, “pres sq ..i4O,, 

or 

SUIPUIJ JOU pue aUIOD peYy Adu} YOM YSnoIp soy oY} JO} Sur 

-Yoo] ‘]J@M oy} JsuTese ‘speoy Itoy) SAOge IYSIT] sy QUOYS 3H 
‘ulese UIO}UL] popeYys sty B3uIsn uesoq uUvIsIog oy) ATeULy 

« SUNS 

‘peop jou a1.noX ji oul Jomsuy jw | aay jouNsiyD,, ‘surnoys 

wo deoxy 0} sdiy sty oyUI spreurosuly sty Yues [noey “suluS 

-JYSZLIJ aJOW Jo JoIAvaY ddUITIS dy} Jo ‘onbedo oloUI pouses Wot} 
punose ssouylep oy) pey JOAN “SuTUajsT] ‘[[NS pooys Aoyy, 
 JOUTIG,, “UBISIOg oY) pres ,,“] S3I,, 

"SULIG § UBISIOg OY} Ul JYSNed J[OSUITY 

Yo oY Joye] JUOWOUI Y “[e} J[oswITY 30] pue ‘spuey AMOUTS sTY 
INIA JUO}S dy} 0} SuNjO ‘[TeEM Jy} JsUTeSe sooUy sTy podelos op] 

Le] 00) auI0D Ady} peyY jpoH 

POOH jULOU! B ION j]][BO B ION jAIO B ION jOUNsUYD Ivsy Jou pip 

Kay) 394 ‘oyey ay) Aq asnoy au} Jo syfem ou} UTUIM Mou oJomM Ao) 

‘uBISIog 94} 0} SuIpJooNy ‘“AJOIxUe 9{QLUO} WI posned punos 
Joyjo Aue jo souasqe oy) ‘IOAOMOY ‘pUNOS Jey) Uey} WOW 

‘gouasold II9u} 

JeoAal Jy puNos oy} yey) SuUTIeIJ ‘poyEs OY [PJ S.UvISIOg 
oy} JO pny} oy) prvsy [nowy “WY MOfog “pres pey oy se pip 9H 


XNOAIT U0jSV.) 802 


< JIOQUIBYS SINZIO) OY} OUT UDT[EJ 9A,9M,, ‘PROYDIOJ 

duwrep sty 10a0 ‘jo)s1d oy) Suipjoy ouo oy) ‘puey sty possed oF 

"UOTOUID doop JO SUO} & UT pres UvISIOg OY} ,.jJOLIIUI B ‘soxX,, 
«JOLT 8 SI [eM SYL,, “pres oy ,,josuidims & s.a10H,, 


60¢ VaddO AHL 4O WOLNVHd dHL 


Otc 


‘go1jod 
JUSUUISAOS dy} JO JOPUCWIUIOD oY} SoJBUSISap DZoLDp PIOM ULISI9d WL 


‘AJBUIPIOR.XO 
oynb powisss savy Aeur yey) Sunoe jo shem pue sopnyziye 
s.UBISIog 3Y) JO oWOs pue ssuTYy) yURWodUT UIeyIDD BuTUTE[dxe 
Joye “Iayeq ay) [ye I 0} Yoeq sn SuLIq 0} 9q AyUO [JIM W ‘I9q 
-ureyd amny0} 9y) Wor Aeme sn oye} 0} sIeadde Ajjouq SuruuIsaq 
ZUNSSIOUT WY} J] [NOY YIM I OFUT [[aF OY aIOJoq Isnoy SspIsoyP| 
oY} WIM UOTOOUUOD UI somMjUSApE [eUOSIod ,S,esorep sy) BdUETIS 
UI JOAO ssed JOU ySNU [ [99J | BSNedIq SPURIS W se I OATS [JIM 
] ‘3 JO piom ouo posueyo jou savy | *(J9}e] Poquosep oq [IM eI 
SQOULISWINDIID UT) Sn Yay ay AIO}S Oy} JUOSOId SIJOY [IM T “Joquieyo 
9INjIO} 2Y} Ul UOHeUIZeUTT JeUIOJUT s,jsoys eIedD oY} ysUTese 
ponid soayesuray) punoy AuseyD op Junoosi, pue sy Moy ‘ATTeUTy 
pue <{Je[[90 PIU) sy} UI soUBNUS 94} POJOAODSIP pey SY MOY ‘OyYP] 
ay Jo Aem Aq asnoy episoyey oy) JoyUS 0} poly AyureA pey oy 
‘qyZIu yey) [QUN ‘MOY JO JUNODOR Ue 9}0IM ATASWIH NVISUdd FHL 


Q ay} JO SIeT[ID ay} UT 
uUvISIag e Jo suOoTe[NqUy, 
DATJINIYSU] PUL BUT}SIIIzUT 


CC 


‘OUI po}oeIe MOU PUB SU SULMOT[OJ USSQ peY Jey) SuIsuIs 
poradsiyM oY} se snomuouley se oq plnod seo oy} UT 3uIZuTI OU 
JEU} JOB SNOTAGO oY} 9ZIUZOSaI 0} pey | Inq ‘seo AW UT BUIsU 
a[qissod & JO pL 303 0} OPI] & peoy Au YooysS | ‘ooRZINs youTq 
-yof ‘yjoouls sj uo Surmjou Ajaynjosqe ouI pamoys ‘aqliog ony 
oy} UO SurUsdo UONETHUDA oy) YsNoIM) SuTMOD Jo\Je ‘71 UO SUOYS 
yey} Weoquoow sy], “Wed Apjoojiod sem oye] sy °° * ‘JOW) 
-Jey [[MS pouvsl pue ‘UMOP pouUes] J “JaJeM oY) UO ‘oul apIsaq 
SEM—ODIOA & APOUTSIP MOU SBM J—OSIOA SY], “3eOqg oy} UT 
Qs[9 DUO OU Sem dJOY) PUL ¥P[ OY) JO s[Pprur oy} UT Apeorye sem 
I ‘J19S}1 Jovem oY} WoOIJ SUID SUISUIS oY} Jey) IQnOp ou peY | JOJ 
“I9JBM 9} PIMO} ‘jBOQ 9Y} JO SpIs oy} JOAO pouvsy | ‘AuOULTEY 
SuVAded “1JOs Jey) JO 9dINOS oy) YORoIdde 0} SuNuEM ‘ATenUOD 
oy} UC ‘dU US)YSy JOU PIP I ey) JOOMS OS sem puUe ‘our 
UJI PIAOU! ‘OU POMOT[OJ I] “UIODSIP JOU P[Nod | Jey) ABM sUIOS 
UI au pedo[aAus puke sxe] AY} JO JaeM 3y) WOIy APuas aso1 1 
‘SUIYIVSIQ JO PUNOS & PUL ISN YO seA I] “OW PUNOIe [Je 9q 0} 
poulses Jey) Suisuls paradsiym Jo pury e Aq poqimsip Ayjenper3 
SEM POMOI J YOIYM UI DOUDTIS ay) ‘SIOYS 9Y} Io] pey | J9V 

"SOOULISUMNOMD SUIMOT[OJ SU} UT ‘ou 0} Jeyey ApTeOU 
SeM ULIeYyo ssoyM pue ‘sould yey} 0} Yovordde oy) popzen3 oym 
USMS 94} POOAOdsIp | Woy sem Jey], “Jeoddesip yuq ues pey 
J c19yM [TBM oy) Jo wed oy} pyeMmo}) MOI puR 320g OPT] Oy) OWT 
93 0} OUI SAOIP ‘OUI 0} ples pey Jo}sUOUI OU) yey) SSUIU) TeIOARS 
UO po}da[Jol [ SB SU 0} SWIOD peYy yey) JYSnoy) SurTjedde ue 
osje pue ‘AyIsOLMd ‘ouoTe sem J PoAdI[aq 00} | uayM Aep su 
‘Te 9Y) UI Joop sty pousdo sy sOYA ATJOVXO das JOU p[nos 
[ yey) Yep os skemye sem PI Ng “o1OYS o}ISOddo 9y) UO [eM oy) 
0} POMOI puUe y20q ITI] STY OJUT JOS oY ‘oUCTe seM oY ZUTADTTAG 
‘UdYM SYR] oY} JO sOYS oY} UO soWNoWOS pue ‘souO punold 
-Iapun oY} Ul saueUOS ‘sTTeY pUNOISoAOgE 94} UI sowNeUIOS 
‘Wy Uo polds uso pey | ‘oWOY sIy spew savy 0} poulass oY 
o1oyM ‘eiodQ oY} Ul YY SUIpUly soUTS ‘sosnI Jo suevou Xq asnoy 
94} OJUI 393 0} AT[NJssaoonsun pol pey ‘syoI) pue sjoJoos sIy 
jo Auew MOUY 0} pred sem oym ‘] ‘posngor skemye pey op] ‘OUT 0} 
SIOOP SNOLIO}sAUI's}t Usdo 0}—ANUNOD AUI UI ‘URISIag UI ‘paTyes 
SEM YLIq yey SI yeYy}—sJoopde]) Jo ISAO] OY} possoq ATUTeA pey 
I ‘O¥e] 94} Aq ssnoy 94} OUT 9UOS pey |] SUIT) ISITZ oY) sem JT 


AUOLS S.NVISUAg JH] 


IIc VdaadO FHI tO WOLNVHd dH 


oY) WIJ Poured] | You} & Sj] ‘JoyeMJopun Sursuls pue Sumpesiq 
Jo} poyasn AIDA s,j1 ng,, ‘pres oy ,,‘o[duNs A[snopNIpy S,j],, 
“paal ZuOT B OU pamoys pus poysne, oH 
‘pur sty yo AjInuesur snoxspuom 
Any oy) Sutaosd se yonur os Zurpou soaot oy ‘ojdood Surystuojse 
Jaye pue ‘pry poyzaouos ‘yseiq & SI oy SBM OUIOS UI—PISIOg Ul 
WIOM 7e UTY 99S 0} UOTSeD00 peYy ATa}eUNJOJUN SuTARY ‘WTY ospnl 
[ MOY SI JeYy}—Jo}sUOU eo B SI oY YsRoY} Joy “AjIsorNd AU 
AJsnes 0} SuYIM sem Off ,, “YOU Uors oyp,, pote Apeorye | wyM 
MOUY O} SBM alisop Ajuo Au Mou ynq ‘SULyye} UO JUOM 3H 
co S[SSMUTY 
Yuq usao jou ‘yoeq YA ploy ueo surmpou yey) Mouy nok 
pue ‘Wf yosI0y Ayfeuly Avu YU “wry Joy pip NOA ddIAIOS & 
yeor3 MOY JoyeU ON ZOU JOJ s[qQeIesquN j syeU 0} ATUO 
ayy Aur oaks noX pig jpHom sup UT asa ouUOAUE JO ‘nod yURAM 
},U0p [ ‘NO oAUT 1,UpIp J Zasnoy Au oyUT 303 0} 3utkq noA 
aiom AUAA,, “APOG SI WoIy SuMMeaNs JayeM [eUIOJUT yey} YIM 
OUI JO JUOIJ UI SuIpuR}s ‘pres oY < NOA JO Ysel sem JeUL,, 
"oJay} UMOP 
gui ynd Apjuad pue ‘aJoys 0} ow porjnd ‘wems oy ‘op 0} pepusyul 
Ayams pey sy se OU SUTUMOIP JO peoj\SUT pue YL SBM 7 JOg 
‘QUI poztusoOoeI Yq yorum Aq Ard & JoyN 
0} SUIT) pey JOU peY | JI ISO] Uoq DAR ATUTEIID P[NOM J *SdIOJ 
Q[QNSISOM JIM UMOP oul por[nd pue ‘yoou oy) Aq ow poddiiz 
‘Jovem OU} JO JNO SUIBD SUE sNONsSUOW OM} 9OUO Je [[V 
"yeoq oy) Bulzisdes 
jo 9339A oy) UO sem | [HUN “Joye, pue JoyWey pouesl | 
“ueYyo 
sy Aofus 0} ueY) sd1JIe OY} JOAODSIP 0} SIIsop & Aq_ SS9] 
poyjadur sem ] ‘je0q oy) JO Opis 9y} JOAO SuTURST UT ‘JeI} 
yoopied Os seM UOTUDAUT oY} UTese s0U0 ynq “Ss. y_ Jo won 
-USAUT MOU dUIOS Aq poyUOIJUOS sem J Jey) IQnOp OU peY | OS 
-AJUSLIOASJ FIOM UONVUIZeUT UeUINY Jood oy) ayeU URS Spey STy 
sMOUy OYM Jamn{uo0s Aue ‘sydLy Jo Sodus OY) WIA ‘yydop years 
UI 3 polpnys pey Jyoshu | pue ‘ATYSnoJoy)  MOUy 0} JOU Yonut 
00} oTseJURy oY) SAC, o[dood soyM AQuNOD & Wo We |] “poh 
yuey) ‘nq ‘axel oy) Aq ssnoYy sy) JO JoyeM IY} OJUO SINJUSA 0} 
ysnous pjog Jopeaey) Aue asnJuod 0} sIOY} poovjd useq pey om 
UdJIS SUIOS PIM Sulpeep sem | WSsNoY) saey Ajams pynom | “soye} 
[nyroury 0} dATdadel Jo snonNsiedns useq pey purUt Aut J] 


XNOAIT UO0ISVS) CLC 


‘ABA SIU} UE spaar Sursn Aq podeoso ye Aoy) Moy pur ‘sIsIpjos youeny Aq 
ponsind atom uoul syy pus wey], aq Jopesy sjesId snourey oy) MOY ST}O3 ‘0061 
A[ng oe] Ul sLVg poyoval yoy ‘uDUO] wo ywodar SAHBNSIUTUIPE UY, 


Arp pue OD :od1ape oulos nod aalZ oul ja] ‘Mou puy j3ueq 3Iq 
B YIM WY pue ‘jfosyt Aq [[OJ I] “WOM ATpeq AIOA sem Joljapueyo 
SUL,, “UO Wom oy ,.“esoep Jeap Au ‘WJOM ATpeq AIDA,, 
‘Suljquiex dyjay 
JOU PjNoo | yy) Ysne] Jo}stUIs ev Yyons WIM yeoq oy} OjUT Jdeoy OF] 
‘Tensn uey) SuTUs}YSLy S1OUI USAS seM YI ‘poysney] oy UOU AA 
. WOM ATpeq sea I “[[eJ Jolapueyo yey) oYwUL },UPIP | 
"NOA [[9} Wed J,, “Surysney ‘pres oy , “Jol[apueyo oy) ‘sac ‘UV, 
,, UBOU |] YUM MOUY noz,, 
< GH mMoge Jey M,, 
« °° YMY “Jolapueyo oy], * * * Jolfapueyo sup ‘TjOAA,, 
<C}2YM NOK TIL, 
" * OU [f9} UBD NOX * * * ow |pAT,, 
<<{S[OOJ SUIYD}Vd IOJ apeUl o7e s~eEO 
‘syjeo Aut doay Joaou | MOUY noX,, ‘poydnusjur oy «cAUM,, 
" * ol O} Jeoms,, ‘uesoq | ,.‘yWG,, 
“OwIt} 
SuOS Joy putut AU UO Ua|q peY ey} SUTWJOWOS ynOge UMTY 0} Ye} 
0} Usyxe} peY UOTeVsIdAUOD OU} UIN} dy) JO aseJURAPe Yoo} | puy 
lO] INOA 
Poaes | “YU “Joquiowloy 0} WI poyueM },upey ] JI NOA JOY ysTx9 
},Up[NOM W sours “yUosaId oY} JOJ SUI 0} d[QeIOMsUe o1.nOk pUuY 
‘quosaid oY} [TMS S.a70y) Ing,, “pres | , “sed op Ur SI eM) [TV,, 
<< USNR] LURINS OTT] OU} aYeU pIp | yYSnoyy 
“UISY) }O3I0J 0} IoJod J,, ‘pes A[Uoppns ‘poder oy ..‘sa A> 
« GUbIOpUuazeP] JO smop Asoy 
OY} UsOSI0J NOA dABH,, “PoUlTe[OXe J ,,jyooIM NOX ‘yy,, 
‘UOISsSoJdxe o[quiuwe 
ue UO Zurye) ‘poyse oy ,.{SIOPINUI poyIUUIOD ATTeOI J] SAeq,, 
. {SIOpINU SOW OU :yU_ ‘oul pastwuoid nod yeyM Mouy noZ,, 
‘A[dreys wry 0) ayods 
J ‘oul s}epruUuur UNTY Je] 0} SUISNJoy “MoUs WIY Uses Udo peYy 
J 384) SOeUSUN YsIP[Tyo Jo Yoo] oy} YM oW preMmo} poddajs ayy 
¢<jSIOYJO O} TeIVJ Useq DALY 
Avul 31 puw,, ‘A[UIo}s pres | , ‘oul parry Apreou yep YOLN & S3y,, 
,, OU) B 3B SINOY JO sawyouWOs 
‘SWISS JO WOO 24) UO pry Oo}  osn Aoy] ,saend uruoy 


66 


£6 


€1c VaidO AHL dO WOLNVHd SHL 


‘Trejye JJOYM yey) Ul yonpuoos Ayomastesd sty Aq UMOYsS 
SEM SB ‘SIONJO Joy papeasp oy saydoseyes oy) YM powssoUOd ATJeOIs sem 
ay IVY) IQnNOp ou saeY | puL ‘yeOY snosoUSd pue o[qoU & peY UvISIOg Ot} EU} 
ppe 0} ‘JoaoMoyY ‘Tey ATUO SI J “eSOIEP JOULIOJ B SB MIP 3Y uotsuad jsopour 
oy) JO pus ay) URS plnom FI ‘OATTE [HS sem Yq Jey) powresy JUDUUIOAOS 
URIOYI I, SY} JI Jey} oIeME SEM OF] :SUOSBAI [BUOSIOd UMO STY JOJ oe} SYA Ul 
Po}SOUdjUT OSTE SEM SY JLY) PoyTUpe savy IYSTU URISIOg ol} yutod si) 1Vx 


uayo pey 3 pue ‘AytuewNy jo oped oy) puodeq wy ind ssouljsn 
oatstndar pue ‘onbrun ‘ofquuoy sip] “WY Jo WYSsNoY) | USyM Bul 
-Joppnys djoy jou prnos J—pexoydied A[qiie) our yo] pey splom 
QSOUI—J[SSUNY JOJ POAOT SVM dy Jey} MOU “USL JO SNONPIA SOU 
QU} suIODeq pkey pue posueYyD pey oy Jey) ou powoyuT ATUUISTOS 
pey Yq y8noy) uoagq ‘“Ajorxue YIM polly sem J ‘Ul IOF sy 
‘+ syy8noy) Suredde Au ynoqe uMouy pey Aowp JI puy jesodO 
oy} OY] UONOR Jo pjary ev ut ATTeIDedsa ‘Jo ajqedeo sem WLIW WY 
umouy Ajuo pey Aoy) JT jwWTY ynoge Suryof peddojs savy plnom 
Kay) yey) nok ainsse ued |] ‘0} poayor Aoyy opeys Areutseult 
oy) uey) pareoy oq 0} SOW YyONU sem pue poorq pue YsoTj 
UI paysTxe Joys oy} yey) UMOUY pey s[dood Jood osoy} J] ;a[doad 
Zurrus Aq uayods spiom asoy} preoy J Usyjo MOH . sous 
ou} SEM J],, ‘ples OW puNore sIoyjO se ,.“YUY Sea aqghey,, 
‘jjosAu 0} ples | ‘pury Aue jo yoo snoforused oulos “jUop 
-I908 UB SBM SIDY} JOAOUSYAA ,“SIOYJO 0} pIesor YIM surly Aue 
Jo a[qedeo sem ay I9J [ ING ‘J[OSAUI JO} presye JOU SBM J “SUIT 
Q{QUIOY STY JO JOLIE) JULJSUOD UT UVeq peY | eIOdO oy) UI SUIAT] 
Yq punoy pey [ UIs Java yey) UsYO 00} Jeodor JoUULS | 
‘WI OUOP PRY dY MOY SUTZeUTT JOU P[NOd 
[ pue ‘wy Suryojem sem J oly Jey[I9 psy) oy} Ul readdesip 
WITY UsaS peY | 9OUO VEY} SIOU! JOJ ‘OUD JoyJOUL 9q 0} PeY StI} 
WyZnoy) [ Ng “HW JO seme sem |] MOUY 9Y Jey}? MOU Ayyetoodso 
‘paprend [Jam 00} A[SNOTAGO s¥M soURDUS Jey], “O¥L] OU BuIsSsOID 
kq asnoy sty out 3umes jo adoy [ye dn oaks | ‘uo oy} WoL, 
‘Q¥R] OY) JO ssouyJep oy} OUT ATo}oTdwIOS poysTUBA oy Ajyeuly pue 
‘soko siy jnq WY Jo SuTyJOU des pfnod | UOOg “xA}g 9y} JO ULUT 
-A1I9} WIS Oy} SYI] Payxoo, oy ‘saXo uapjos sty Joy ydooxy ‘ode 
ue oy] YWoJ pue yorq SurAems ‘} Sulnos ukeseq pue yeoq sTy 
JO UWJO}S OY) UT pooys oY “YSneyT JojsTUIs SITY YIM SIU} ples oy SV 
| _,jMoA 03 ssews wornbor Aur ayeoIpop 0} ou 
SAO pjnom 3 pue ‘esorep ‘osoy} SABMTE JOU UI] “asnoy Aw ojut 
193 0) AN 1,U0q :Ayyeroodsa sty} Joquiouler pue ‘urede yeoq Aut 
OJUT 493 JOAD },UOG “PpjOd B Yoyed 0} JUBA },UOP nod JI JyasmnoA 


XNOAFT U04SV5) FIZ 


O08 0} JNO SWOO 0} SARY P[NomM oy IY3noY | 105 ‘Teodde 0} 19)suOUr 
oY} JOJ poyem ] ‘aloys yep oy} sou Surpry ‘soy Imoj-AjQuam} 
Jo,J ‘OS SuIop jo Jasuep oy) oyIdsop oye] ay) 0) yoORG OF 0} 
poajosal | ‘Supeysoy now “oyxe] oy Aq asnoy oy) UT JoUOSLId 
® MOU SBM [113 Jood at} yey Iqnop OU peY |] ‘aUOS aloMm asioy 
SYM 34} pue “oUNsLYyD “yLIg ‘ssousnolsuod pouteSal | Udy, 
"peayaioj ay} UO MOTQ B Aq pouUN)s sem | PJom 
e Aes pjnos | aJ0Joq pue ‘soko uapjos om} Woy AT] syzeds Mes | 
"O[QUIO} seM I “JJasAW pomoys | ‘Woy) spiseq ATUTed poo}s ‘vo 
-dQ 943 JO a[qQeIs punosZsepun oy) Woy poreaddesip pey yorum 
‘aleydosg aT Woy asioy oy) ‘asioy oITYM YW ‘poyuTey Suraey Woy 
Apusptas ‘snofosuosun Ae] sys se peoyasoy Joy uO J9}2M JOO 
suroeld pue (punoi31epun ‘pus Jey oy) ye) oSessed .SpIVUNUIWIO-) 
oy} Ul UTeJUNOJ 91] Surdsam oy) JOAO Surues] WY pull Oo} pue 
‘IaYIO yoVa ZuToes aJOM ove] CUNSLYD pue YLIy Jey) seo pue 
soko UMO AUT WO UIeZ] 0} popuNojse sem J Joye] Shep MIz V 
. ‘a8ejs OY} IOpUN sIe][99 oy) OUT APOaNp 
O83 0} YL pojqeus savy ysnur yey) 10opdey oy) osye pue ‘ure] 
-“UNO}J oY} pue uossunp .spleunUIWOD oy) 0} poy yey} oSessed ayy 
POJSAOOSIP OS|e J “JOY Spisoq SuIpueys sJoM oY JI Se WIY Jesy oun) 
“SHY eyxeul prnos sy yorym Aq ‘aqny Suryeods ev se SutuoMoUNy 
‘SYOG MOTOY JO JUoWOSuBLE OY} Mes | pu “JOATd 0) opeU oq 
PInos Jour oy} Sunoddns [Tem ay yorym Aq so1Asp oy) SuIpuyy 
ur AYNOIZIp ou pey | ‘sed oy) ul our UDAIS peYy Yq eM SUOSSO] 
OY} SULISqUIOUISY “WOOT ZUIssoIp Joy OUT OF 0} doURYD & pey | 
jWIYy Uses JOAOU pey sys 
yey} pauses] J USYM poojssopun | ‘ssoul[gn sty JoS10J J9y syeuI 
P[NOS—][IM Je “OOIOA S,JadUB UB SB YOS JO JopuNy) se pno] syeu 
P[NOS oY YOIYM—9IOA 8, YUG yey) JYsnoy) savy jou prnom J nq 
‘Joy pomnjderus ATsnoraqo yey) ssouvuojiod yeorsnu a[qesTupe 
0} pousysi] pey J “WOOI BUISsoIP Joy 0} }XOU WOOIOIO}s oI) 
UI SUIPIH “oeveq SUNSLYD pur Jo}suOUI oy) USeMIOq poust[qeisa 
usaq PRY JY) SUONLIAI osUBNS BY) PAOAODSIP ‘IOAOQIOUW ‘pey | 
"syy8nouy Surjedde Aur Jo yed Apueysuos arom ‘oydonseyeo s]quI0Y 
JSOUI oY} SuToUNOUUe AjaNseA ‘out plo} pey ay sSuMp oy) pue 
‘Iredsop snoxsesip pue owtqns oul uM pfnods MOOS sTy MOY 
MOU J “SJOUL [[NS Tea AU paseotour pue ‘js oy} [Te Ue) osIOM 
‘SoIpeseN MoU JO OSNed & se I 908 OUI opeU—azeTMUEY aUI000q 
pey J Yor YIM duo} [NyJseoq e& Ul—JTeyje SAC, sIy ynoge 
oul 0} poyye? oy ABM oy, “soe UeUINY oy) 0} sUOTeSIQo Aue 
pey oy I][9J JasUO] OU oy UOSeAI sTy) JOJ yey) OUI 0} JUaTedde udeq 


STZ VuddO FHL JO. WOLNVHd FHL 


Aueul Joy peq 00} 9q [[IM I ‘s}aJONS S, YL UleUIOI },UOp SjaIoas 
S.¥Uq JI jSurmpAue Joy jou ‘on,, “urede poyous of ,,jsurmpAue 
Joy JomsuR },U0M | jpuety Aur ‘uoddey [jim ssuryy peq AJOA UWL, 
‘aye] ou Aq asnoy oy} JOAOdsIp [][,Aou) pue ‘00) FLY J0J Suryoo] 
uIs0q [j{,Aouy) pue ‘yl JO} Zuryoo, o1,noA yey) yno pulyz [T, Adu 
pue ‘aloy Joy Suryooy a1,nok yeym Jopuom Ayfeury [TM ajdoed 
‘ssoussoTyool NOK YIM yey) NOA BUTTS) W.J—{aIoyMAIOAD UJ 
MOUY NOA {9dJJo sy} UT sIOy) sem | ‘SoA ‘oJ SBM J) Jo}eOY) & 
Ul a3E}SYOe BuUIaq JO puo] pue s}ajjo 93¥)S UT PoJSOIOJUT ULISIOg 
Jeorsurym e ATUO alam nok poadijoq Aoy) pue ‘sioseuew oy} 
0} NOK YOO) pue sIe][99 oy) UT SuIOp aJom NOA yey MOUY },UPIp 
ay {ey Way Oy) ur Ue ou Aq 901m) poddoys useq Apeorfe 3A ,nok 
—ssoussopyoor INoA YM yey NOA BUTTS} WE] [JUTY & SyeB} 0} 
MOY—I[e JO} pue sou0 ‘soA—y[e Joy pue 90U0 UIeO] JsNU NOZ,, 
:syysnoy) surtedde Aur 0} pepuodsaxi0s yoy ‘syysnouy 
g[quuoy sty possoidxo oy ‘A[pnoy] Sunsous Joypy “wy IdnuoyUT 
0} JOU [Njord seM [ JoUIOW st) Joy yey) AIZue Os sem OH 
_.jJUTy & aye} 0} MOY MOUY [[NS Nod Ji Jopuom | pue A[ssapyoor 
AYA SuUIABYOQ Ud99q 9A,NOX juUIese a1oy) NOA PUTZ OUI Jo] 3,U0q 
:A[nyored OUI 0} Ud}ST] ynq ‘oSessed spreuNWTUIOD AU UT ‘Aep 
-19)894 nod pareds | ‘aloy ow ynogqe MoUy NOA SUIWJAIOAD MOU 
] pue ‘nok Zutmoyjoy useq aaj nq ‘[I7s] Uoya[duNs ssuSUTALT noA 
‘gut SUIMOT[OJ U90q 9A,NOA yuIy) NOX “nok WIM yuoed A[snors 
-1poid u90q 9A] osnedeq ‘JjasMod UO 1 IYsNoIq aavy [],NOK puy 
‘k]peq pus 0} SuI03 st si yeu) NO ueM | pu ‘ot SUTIOIIOG 
O1.noX,, ‘pres oy ,,‘sinoy moj-AjUM) JOF dI9y UI9q 9A,NOX,, 
‘QUI 0} SUIYD pue HI JO yNO Jdeo] YY ‘popuey yeoq oy} UOOS pue 
‘suookag axl] Sururys soko Uspfos om} MBS pUe SsoUyIep oy} UT 
punos Zuryseyds jurey & pxeoy [ UY, “Je[[I9 PAY} oy) UL suo Ot} 
‘Joop Joyjoue Jo Aem Aq YoT savy ysnu oy yey} JfOsSAW po} pue 
gousned Zuo, Au! woly pom oureseq AljeUuly [—OUl 0} Suryeads 
ur ‘y8nez ssojhof e@ WIM ‘SOW JeJoAeS W popes pey sy se 
‘QUIDAW 3¥e7]—OYe] OY) JO ays oy) UO TY Joy poyoyem | SY 
"20S 0} 
g[qeiesq—Jsoujp PIOM SY) SSos | pue—jsoul[e WITY SpeUl Sed] 
ye JI “ISAO poULIeM Yop Syl] SYOO] OH,, Se SSUTy} Yons pres 
uay) pue ssed uy poyoyem ofdood sours ‘aouereedde siqeoeul 
sry Aeme oye} Aforue JOU pip ST) Ysnoy], “s[oy-ssou snoapry sty 
Opry 0} “91 0} poyoeye oyoR)sNUI B YIM asoU 9yoRUI-Jolded wv c10M 
ay ‘orgnd ur JjasuiTy MOYs 0} porep JO AjID Oy} OWT INO JOM 
oy Woy Jey) ABS JSNU J WONS9UUOS sIY} Uy] "SUOISIAOId jos pue 


XNOLIT U0qSV*) 91Z 


co SFOU? 9¢@ ILL, 

&é “ulede 
asessed spieunuWo0s oy} Suocye o3 0} ZurIm Apooyiod s.oys 
Jey} pu WOO] SUISSaIp JOY 0} SUC sey SUTNSTIYD Jeyp 998 [][,NoOz 
“MIOOIAIO}S SY} Ul Oply ued NOA Udy], “OWT ev JOJ lou) oq TIM 
[ pue sUTISEYD ‘][[eq poyseul su) 0) SWIOD “JYsTUO} W 99S [],.NOoA 
‘om AIOA {UTese sireyye AU UL o[ppoul IdA0U [][,NOX puy,, 

cc TTTAA 
901J UMO Joy JO I 0} YOeq OS pue oye] 9y) Aq aSNoY oy) ALOT 
ave SUNSLIYD ses J UoyA NOX sAat[oq [].J,, ‘PIES | ,,“USIST'T,, 
. jSSBUT Je) Jeoy NOA [NM Wem ysng °° * uosiaja acy 
‘audy ‘aiiXy,, :ApOS Sues oy se J[oswTy Joy yUowTUEdUIODO STU 
-YJAUI UT SUIT} STU) ‘Jeo Ou} JSUTeSe s[soy sty PoAOP] Uyese oH 
cc | aOUky 
OU} Jvay NOA Usy AA {USBLIM Apeagye st sseur Surppom Aur yeu) nod 
119} [ UOYM oUt SAdTIOG NOA [ITAA *[215] uoJo;duNIs ssuoUTUTT NOA 
‘yoInYyd sUTA;Spe|A] SY) Ul SUIPpoM v—SuUIPpoM Fk UT pud [][e ][IM 
If {SW SAO] SYS ssned0q YOeq SUIOD [],9YS pue ‘dAvaT JOY 39] 0} 
TM Aur ‘Tim Aur st ‘[97s] uojojduuts ssuswunt nod ‘Aynp AW,, 
<< DAB Jay 32] 
0} Ajnp MOA SW Ng * * * “YOR SWIOD [][,9YS Jey IqQnop | ‘YO,, 
<< JIOSAW JOJ OUI SOAOT 
oYys osnedsoq ‘plod0e UMO JOY JO Ydeq SUIS [SYS jO} JURM [Toys 
esnedseq “yoRq SUIS [[,dYS ‘SOX jYoVq WO ]],dYs pue ‘sosvajd 
OYS SB dIOY SARI] [[IM UNSUYD “aydunts amb sj ‘usw ‘JOM,, 
‘Io}SUOUW B YONS JOJ o[qQIssodum sea Joosd yons yey) ons sem 
J asnedeq ‘UONeIISOy JNOWIM poJamsue | ,,‘asmuold |] ‘sox,, 
<<CJ[OSAW JOJ POAC] WJ yeY} NOA 0} AOI | JI uTese suEyzE 
AU UL O[Ppoul 0} JaAoU ssTWIOId NOA [ITAA ‘OW 0) Ud)STT,, 
| .,jzZouostid mod 
§,d4S MOU pue Joy pojonpge no4,, ‘pres | ,,‘ony) jou sjeUy,, 
<< JIOSAML 
JO} POAC] UI. ‘asnoy AUI UI Joy jOOW 0} YSU e DAeY Y,, 
<< SVR OUTISTIYD S$. :]Jom AIOA MOUY N0Z,, 
. GUdY} “I ST OUAA,, 
., JO} YOOT 0} Bd 90d 9A J DUO 94} },USI YLI,, ‘pres 
Ajduats | ‘Iomsue pynom | yeYyM Jeoy 0} SuNtem ‘Wt ysuIese spooy 
SIy SUryOTY uesoq pue je0qg SIy JO UId}s OY) UI UMOP JES af] 
<, JUN & Oye} 0} MOY MOUY },UOp pur 
[21s] uoyo[dults osUSUTUTT Ue 31,nOA ssopuN ‘YsnoUs 9q 0} 14BNo 7 
pue ‘nod 0} Aes 0} Saey | [ye § Jey], jooes uvUNY oy) Jo sIoqusUl 


LIZ VdaadO AHL tO WOINVHd dHL 


JO} SUOp pey }I se poxJOM WsueYyoou sy] “sulIds oy} UO possald 
uoy) pue IMoy ue SRO] Je poyEMm | ‘SIY} JO ams oyeU OF, 
"9SOYD J JOADUAYM dy] 9} Aq osnoy 2} 0} OF ow 
39] P[NOM FT {JoIDES S_JO}SUOW SY} MOUY ] “WIY puryoq inys SunMs 
QUO}S OY) pue osessed yey) OUT poseoddesip ayy “WIY JO} adessed 
v Sutusdo ‘yorq 3UIMS 9U0}S B speU Jey) SuLIds e UO possald 
‘pajou Ajjeuoul | UONBDO] ssoyM soRT v Je ‘puUe [eM SY} 0} JUOM 
‘ye]J eB pue ad0Id jas oy) UsEMI0Q Possed o]{ “SUI 39S JOU PIP oY 
ams sem |] “SooUy puke spuey SY UO OW pyeMoO}? SUTWIOS Io}sUOU 
ou) Mes J Aep ouQ “popsyeMmar oq 0} pey souored Jey) [TV 
‘udYJO poutJojied you sem asoyvy] ap toy aT 20uIs ‘AYA MOU 
JOU Op | ‘aIay) Yo, UsEq PRY yeu) asoyvT] ap 1oy a7 Woy ade1d 
JOS & pUTyog Surpry ‘squiny) AUT O]PPIM) Inq Op oO} SuTOU TIM 
‘aray) smoy ssoppus juods | ‘Aep ou) SuLmMp poyosop Ayyjensn sem 
WI Surmouy ‘olay OM ATpoyeodal | ‘Ie[[S9 ply) oy) UT sOURNUS 
yo1Nes oy) Jo Wsnoy) ou} Aq poJUNeY [HS sem J souls Ing 
‘asessed spreunuruios ou) 
JO D¥L] OY) O} SUTUINIOI JO OYeISTUI OY) SYVUI OU PIP | ‘IOAOMOY 
‘UONNED SUIAXO 0} PoUsISOY “YW Inoqe Yury) 0) Jou—s)Yysnoyy 
Zuyjedde Aut jo osnedsoq ‘ow Joy ATfetsodso—prey AIOA sem 
WI ynq ‘purur Au Jo yno ArajsAUI snoJoUre yey} ynd 0} poly uo) | 
‘OS OP 0} PddJOJ USEG SUTARY JO USIS OU YIM 7 0} WINjol pue oyP] 
ay) Aq asnoy oy} SARg] SLC OUNSLIYD MUS | SOUIT} [BIOADS “po}dIp 
-old pey yuq se pouoddey ssummy ‘juoulozeure jsea AW OF 


., 90k] UPUINY 3Y} JO sIoquiow AUeU,, pousyeory) Mou 
OYM Jo}suOU! B JO oJI] ou} SuTAes Aq Aep suo udye} pey | ArITIG 
-Isuodses snoulous oy) Jo asnedeq Ajorxue Sursseu e Jo JjosAul 
plI 30U pfnoo | ‘yuoureJodurs) Aq oNsTeIey JoWJeI We | Ysnouye 
puy .,jpue 0} 3ulod si} [fe st MOH,, ‘JfosAu 0} pres | 
"ssoussopyoor AUT ynoqe 
pres pey oy yey WM Al[njromod os dn wow paums pey yu 
yey) Mou ‘s}ysnow SuTjedde Aur wyIM pordnssoeid AT[etsedso sem 
J Inq “seed SUNSHYD oge polo [TNs sem J “WoT J os puy 
| _, sulddoys 
QUIOS Op pue O8 0} SARY | OSNeDNQ,, ‘pres YI , ‘MOU 9AROT,, 
‘JOZUIS PoysInsuNsip e oq 0} suoddey uewiom 
[nyyNeeq oy) pu ‘pIp oUO STy) se ‘IOARJ SITY UT SISNU Jo JUOW 
-JueYyoUS oY) sey Ja}suOU! oy} Udy ATTeIDedse ‘Io}sUOU 9TqQUUIO0Y 
SOW DY} SAC] 0} JUS & sey sABMTE ULUIOM [NJNNeIG B asNedeq 
‘pres pey yu yeym jdo00e 0} oaey plnom | ‘yey) MLS | JT 


XNOL] U04SD5) gIz 


AoyL :Ayjeondeys pops pey ojdoed yorym ye Surmjowos ‘Apoqg 
s,jonbng ydasor punoj oym spueyoseys oy) Aq ples Sumpjouios 
paloquiculal J “dyxe] ou) Jo syjdop oy) Wo BuIst1 3uos suas 
oy) preoy pey ] se ‘yes oy Jo stpdop oy) Wo SuNUOD SuIsuUIs 
JOULJSIPUT ‘oJOUTAI Jeay [[DS Pp[Nod | pesojo sem yi USyM UdAe puy 
“QU0}S 94} Posojo APUSS | ‘uIese SulAeld uesaq oy Udy AA ‘JOyIO 
OUI OINSSBAI JOU PIP SpIOM asoy], , .jpoystury ATao[du07 jasofag 
PoYstUly oq JSNU IJ,, ‘9OIOA SUIPUNOsal B UI ‘pnoye pres sy puy 
‘URUWIPeUI B O¥I] ‘ASNoY SITY Ul YO pue yorq poovd pure oul} & Joj 
Burhejd poddojs of] “SAOU 0} JOU [Jared ‘aToy yep Aur ut paXeys 
Apuopnid | ‘ofl] sty JO FIOM oy) sem YW MOUY [ ‘JUvydwnisy 
uonf uoqd SIq¥ UO SUTYIOM SBM Jo}SUOU oY} ‘Uedo asnoy sm UI 
SIOOP OU} [Te WIM :oIsnul [nJJoMmod preoy Ajoyerpourut | pue uoedo 
QUO}s 9U} opeu | ‘AyTUNjIoddo ue Joy BuyTeEM Jo pam ‘Aep ouQ 
‘9snoy yey} UT sem yeyM APoexo 
MOUY J Jey) ‘Oyes S,dUOAIOAD JOJ ‘JURYIOdWT sem 3 “IJeTIIO pay 
oy} UI asessed ay) YSNoI) ‘ApoJes 7 I9}Ud 0} dTQe 9q Udy} pjnom | 
yeu} pue Asnoyeol Aq asnoy sty Jo yo USALIp aq ATTeNJUSdA9 PynoM 
JO}SUOUI 3} Jey} Poadljeq | ‘uefd Aw ynoge noX |[][>) ysnuT | 

“gouasqe sty Aq painssvoal OU SBM | INQ ‘J[aSWITY MOYS JOU pIp 
OH ‘premioyye sorjod oy} 0} suoneurldxe sald pue ‘Aressooou I 
JOJSUOW SU} [[F{ plnom | :3urgjou ye dojs 0} poajosal sem |] ‘wey? 
JOAO SUTOJEM SBM DUOSUIOS 7eY} oIeMPUN 910M ADU} ‘Ja}SUOUI 
ou} poploae pue ofdnoo pasesus yuSOOUUT UR SuUIOg ye poXeyd 
Aay) ‘e1odQ oy} Jo wed Joddn oy) ul ‘aptyuA, ‘AuSeyD ep lnoey 
0} AjJoyM posuojeq yeoy Joy ynq ‘IOIIN) Aq puTW s oUnSLIyD pord 
-N590 Off “ITEJJe DAO] pes S.JOSUOU 3Y} yNOgGe YIN sy) pouses] 
J Woos pue ‘eiodO sy} UI—A]snolnes—JapueM 0} ponunUOd { 

., sUTpjAUB JOOdXS UBD OM,, ‘JJOSAUI PO} | ,,‘J[OSUITY JOJ PoAoy 
JOU S,dY JU) SIOAOOSIP Yq J],, “OW Yo] IJOAOU Jey) sJYsnoy) 
Suljjedde asouj jo ‘pres Apeolye oaevy | se ‘osneseq ynq ‘AjIsoLINS 
PIqiowl Jo Jno JOU ‘ove SUNSIIYD pue Yq useMjOq drysuonejar 
OU} UI paysazoyul Aeors [NS sem | ‘oulseuI [Jam ued Nod sy 

"Wa}sKs UvISIOg plo Ue SuISN ‘added UT yORq BU0}S 
ou) sugnd Ayjnjores Jaye viodQ ou} Jo siepJa9 oY} YO] ] , ‘does 
uvwiny oy} Jo sIoquioul Aueul,, 0} ‘ajdood Aueul 0} [eloljousq 9q 
WYyStw yey) AIOAOOSIP & JO OSe]URAPe OY} BUISO] YSU 0} SuUeM 
jou ‘pue yyeop s,jonbng ydosor Jo ow popuruwar Ajuoppns alsy) 
asiidins Aq ow oye} JYSTU oY JEU) vop! oy) aIOWIBYM, ‘oSessed 
ou) OJUI O83 OU pip | ‘awoy ye sem oy BZuIMOUY ‘Ing “yA 


61¢ VdaddO AHL dO WOLNVHd SHE. 


0} SumjAue ureldxe 0} OWI) SAPY JOU pIp | BsINOd Jo jnq ‘pres 
I ..iJonp B yeYUM puy,, jam AyUTeyIIO OMA “JONp B IYSIy 0} Sulos 
IM OM Jl OW poyse jnoey ‘sjoystd Au MPS JST oy UO AY 
‘1oopdey 
ou) Ysnory) pue osessed spreunuTOD oy} Jo AeM Aq O38 0} SARY 
PINOM 9AQ ‘[[BM 9} JO IpIs JayJO oy} UO sn JO} SuTTeEM 3q JYSTIU 
Yq ‘Tye Joye ‘Joy ‘sem [ se ‘ooys 0} Apeol oq 0} WHY postape 
pue [nory 0} Woy) Jo sUO DAL |] “WOO! BUISSAIp s,oUTsIUD 
UI SN 0} WY) IYSnoIq oH “spoysId Aud Joy ‘yueAIas AW ‘snueg 
ques | ‘A[ddop ou poyono} yey) ow UT sOUDpIyUOD & YIM ‘Aloye 
-IPOUIUWT poyUssuOd oy pue our day 0} AuseYsD op [Noy JUNODSTA 
Sunod sjyelodsop oy} poyse | “Je][I9 ply) oy} UI o3essed oy) Jo 
Aem Aq dsnoy Sty 19}U9 0} yeY} JO aSeJUBAPE SYP} 0} pry | “OAKS 
sty jo AjUO suru mou sem yA yey) Ajoy] oynb sem 3 
‘aw 0} SnonIdoid pawises su] oY) SouUTS ATTeTDodso ‘Aepop jnNOoWIM 
yO P[NOM | SIseq [eNPIAIpUT ue UO }eU) ‘IOAOMOY ‘Poploap | 
‘popeorp Apeorye 
J 9UO 94} Ue} ISIOM UdAd—Ss}YSIJ oBvAeS ‘YSN oY) UI Yeop 
0} pojdwey Io pazoyjows sjdood—oydoysejyeo ve osneo 7YysTU 
] ‘o[durexs Joy ,,jalq,, suNnoys Aq sAvo]_ Woy) syeUl 0} poly 
] Jt ey) MoUyY | puYy “ouRsUT sem | YUIY) prnom Aa} yeu) AjuTeVIID 
Aut Aq poddojs sem | ing ‘Aeme uni 0} viedo oy} WI SuLAsUTT 
ajdoad dsou} [fe o31n pynoys | JI poJopuom | yOUIOU! & IO 
‘QUOAIOAD JOJ OQAPUT pue 
‘Idy JO} PUD OY} SEM }I OUT} SIU) Jeu} IYSNOU) | puy ‘sem ay yey} 
sloyeySIpysad Jo Sury oy} Oy] ‘YSTURA Joy speU pey YA yeu) 
WQnop OU pey | “Joy posedoid sem | nq ‘osja OUOAIOAD postidins 
Ayfeanjeu joe uostuid oy) SuLMp uoTONpqe s.oeeq sUNsIIy) 
‘SuimpAue 3unoodxo 
‘Opisur JUOM J “}SI[eJey Bw JO SuIMoWOs we | ‘sIoUIOjseq pood 
He Ox] “Ing “Surpueys [[Ns 3 Ses 0} postidims arom | FI se SuIpyINg 
34} 3 poyxooy | ‘esodGQ oy} JO JO UI quod & JO yNO 303 | UO 
‘aydonsejes & oyeyidioord ATuo ys WY SulounoUSp 
yey) poziyeal | pue sul 0} pouINjoI A][eUTy UOSvOI jng ‘*Jo}SUOUT 
oy} DoUNOUAp 10U pyNoys | ‘]][e Joye ‘Jr poopuom ApuE}sUOS pey 
] ‘poreur oq 0} Sulos a1am Auseys op JuNOOSIA pue sUTSTIYZ 
yeu) Jodedsmou SuIuIOW B UT SUIpeal Joye ‘asneooq Aep 9] QI1I9} 
B® yuads pey [ ‘sMoU peq Suuesy jo preye ‘ajyey ower visdo 
oy} ye poate | ‘uoMoNpae s.ovegq sUNsYyD jo WY3IU oy) UC 
<< PeOp du) Jo Sursuis oy) 
Oy] punos v,, pvoy pey Ady} Apog oy) puNore [je yey) powre[o 


XNOLF] U04SP) yard 


‘SpUSL SUTISIA JOY JO OWIOS UDAd PUL UOTIOM JOY 
JO [BIOAOS Po[[FY SYS I UPA ‘osse, qefung oy} MOMH 0} pouRs] 
osye eURI[NS SPIT OY], ‘popnetdde pue mopulm e wo poysjem 
Ady} SB USWIOM Joy pue BURINS OPT] OU Jo JUOIZ UT WATY emp ust) 
PInom ay pur ‘you s,AWIOS sTy punose Oss] Japus{s oy) Us}y3N 
PINOM YL “ISLAM SI JO JUSUWIOAOW Yop Be YAK “Ie oy) Ysnomp 
SSTY pynom ossey oy) ‘MoOTq AWYSTU v TIM UTY [PFT 0} ynoge sem 
oy IYSnoy) Jowsem oy) uoyM ysnf pue ‘ossey, sty ATUO pey YA 
‘PIOMSpeOIQ & puL oyId SUOT & IPIM poule ‘yep 0} pouwapuOd 
ueul eB AT[eNsn ‘IOLLIeM & WYSIy 0} pIeALMO & UI posojoUs JASUITY 
SABY P[NOM off “SUI[SUBIS UT [[D{S S[QIPaIOUT WIAA Yorq sulOo pey 
oy ‘eIpuy ul Avs v JoyFW ‘osse] qefung sIy esn 0} ueY} 7 BuUTOp Jo 
AB Iayj0q OU pUNO] pey oy puy ‘Joppnys Joy Suryeu Aq JyasuNTYy 
osnue 0} WI Yyse prnom sys ‘uvlopuszep] JO smMoP AsSoy oy) Jo 
SUIT) oy) UI ‘Ysne] eURI[NS OPT] Oy) SUTyeW poysrury pey sy Udy A, 
"SIOWSIpysaid Jo Sury sy) st oy se sla[sueNs Jo souud oy) st 
oY pue ‘ssop oy ueY) J9}}0q Osse| qefung dy} MOIY) UL DUO ON 
‘osse] quiung sty asn 0} Sumedaid ‘sn punose 
ajoymoulos Apeoye sea oy yey) sea JoLIa) AW pue ‘ioy usyE) 
SARY JSNUI oY sIOYM Jye] 3ty Aq Ssnoy dU} UT ‘UTeSse pojyuTes Jqnop 
ou pey OUM ‘OUNSTITYD YM [NS sem oy yey) sem odoy AW 
jsloopden jo purl oy) UI sIoopden jo Joao] oy} JsuTeSe BuNYsTy 
JO YUIY) ‘puTy 1soq oy} ore yey} sIOOpdeN ZuNoatid osoy) Jo Auew 
OS spew AUNOS INO UI OYM ‘sIoOpdeN Jo JOAOCT OY) JsuTeSe Zur 
“WS JO YUM], (Po[Pry{ sowmMoutos pue syoyood pondurs sourrjowos 
om ‘poyey SOWTeWOS pue poyol sowMaWIOs OYM UIpNoY EqQoy 
[nyAvjd pue snomosoy eB sem o10U) ‘s[aAa] Joddn salj-AyUOM) pue 
SIV][9D SAT S} UT ‘Jt eIOdO OY) SpIsSUI SUODUIOS Jo sIed JO saho 
oy) 0} uoddey isi yey sUIseU sUOAUR p[NOD {s8uULIOppnys 
NOM 3ey} JO yu) suOAUe p[NoD jeUOsewsej}UeUd Jo pur] 
OU} UI ‘ST JeyJ—BIOdG oY} JO SIVIJOO Oy} UI 308 MOT pNod sy puy 
"WOOP I1ay} 0} s}usuoddo sTy peo] pynoo yey) SuLwsYy pue 7YySIs 
JO suoIsn]]I sonpoid 0} Wo) sUTQUIOD pue sooJOJ [emMjeU [Te Jo 
9SN SxRUI 0} WIY porqeuo [Fs pue ‘uoneurseun ‘Suruund ‘ospo 
-[MOUY osues}s ssoyM ULL B ‘SIONJO 0} Yep seM SuUTYJAIOAD MOY 
wry punore SuTMmAIoAS Mes pue ‘oq 0} poJuRM oy UoyM ATUO 
QIQISIA SEM OUM ULW vB JSUTese SUNYSIy Jo yOodsoid oy) 3doooe 
0} pivy I puNOJ JJOSAW | {10}eUSIpHsoid yuey[Uq sour oy} WIM 
JEQUIOD B 0} PoIRdUIOS JOLLIEM JSOdIOIJ SY} YIIA JONP & ST UA, 
jpoos oy 0} [Te sem YOUmM—ATesJOApe 
SITY ynoqe SulyjoU Jsow]e MOUy oy 3nq ‘oAvIQ SI OFF “WIY 


Te? VdaadO FHI tO WOLNVHd 4H 


-LLIOY SOU dy} ATUTEVIID “SUOTUSAUT sIqLIOY pey oF “aIom NOA 
araym Aoexe MOUY JOAOU pfnod no< , posueLeol,, pey oy sovjed 
B UI JeY) UOTUSUI 0} JON jSJoopdey sry WIM ‘WY puTyog Yor pey 
JQsSUOU 9U} sorpeseNn Apoojq pue syorpyuoo Ayres Auo}s Aueur 
MOP ‘Oyo ue Aq poylodal JO pIVdyIOAO HW SUIALY NOM PIOM & 
Aes p[nod suo OU AIOYA [TASP 3} JO Ssnoy & O}UT SUTIPTING JsoUOY 
Apoojiod & Wooly W pesueyo pey 9H ‘“a0eTed UBIapuOZeP] 9u} 
YIM oUOp pey oy JeYM MOUY J Vsnedeq “JaAOMOY ‘OsSNoY SIy OFUT 
umop poduinf | uoyM Asvoun sem |] “OUIT) yeu) [ye SULNp IsIADp 
0} 9[qQe Uuseq pey. oY SYOLQ oy} [Te IJOAoosip AyjenjUsAd pynos 
] 38M uondunsse oy) UO 08 0} YSnoUd [Jom YG AW MOUY | 
‘(QUNUTIOD OU) pue ‘seg Jo ddaIs OU} ‘JeA\ 9U) SULIMp popusdsns 
Ayyetoyjjo sem yJOM UOTONASUOS UsyM ‘ouOTe pue Apidos ‘SUT 
-YIOM ponuTjuos pure ‘eledG ou} Jo yOa}TYOIe OY} ‘IOTWIeDH sopreyy 
JO SJO}OVIJUOD ATUOSCUT JSOWIDIOJ DY} JO 9UO SeM SY SUIS ‘[]Te 3 
AYNOYFIP OU YIM PIP oy YOM) syfem uoHEpunoy s,elodQ oy) Jo 
adojaause s[qQnop 24) UT ING pey ALY yey) ssnoy 9} OVUT deo] om 
pue uedo su0}s oy} spew | ‘asoyn’T] ap toy a7 wo adeId yas ou) 
pue yeTJ Oy} USAMIJOQ ‘IeTJOD PIU oy} UT AYNOTJIP Noy poaLue 
] pue [novy ‘uses Suteq NOUIIM yey I[9J OY} UI UeUT oy} SuUIssed 
pue dUIT} JSIJ OY} JOJ JOT[IY-3e1 Oy) ZuNSow! uoy) ‘uUowoNy ou) pue 
‘sIaso[o-JOop [eons ‘Aressturu0d aolfod oy} SuIpioae IaIyVy 
"WI DAOUTAI ATISed UBD NOA asNedeq ssopWIeY 
souIodeg sny} pue ‘you 94) SB [JOM se ‘puey ou} JO Ue oI) 
punoze noX sayoyed I :UMOIUR St Wt AT[NIT[TFYS Moy Joyeu! ou ‘ossey] 
qefung e Aq poysuens aq 0) NoA Joy o[qQIssodumt 31 soyeu UONIsod 
yY], “WJ 0} Joplo oy) JOJ Suniem jsionp e Jo uonisod oy 
UI JUOq ULE STY YIM ‘SoA9 STY JO JOAZ] OU} 3e puLY sty dooy 0} WIY 
po) A[uo |] ‘uoReNIs ou) o}edI[dUIOD 0} ssojasn US0q SAY P[NOM 
Yo ‘wry premo} ATy 0} Apeor sem ossel qefung e& ssouysep ou} 
UI SIOYMOUIOS JV} WIIY []9} 0} J posn savy P[Nom | JI MOU j0U 
Op | ow} Alou pey prey | JI USA pue ‘noRY Oo} Jeu) [Te UTEydxo 
0} SUIT} SAvY 3OU pip | ‘JUowOou Aue ye sn o[sueNs 0} AN 34ST 
oy ing ‘“JjoswIy MOYs JOU pPNoOM sy ‘asessed spreuNUIWIO|D 
oy) Sulajuo wo sn yuoAdd 0} SUTWJOU SUOp pey YY souls 
yey) ains sem | JoJ ‘sn 0} asn Aue Jo. aq JosUCT OU pfNod sjoqsid 
Aul ‘asInod Jo ‘sIe[[99 Sy} UI 3JOM 9M BOUO ‘“po[sueNs SuIEq Jo 
Jeary} JULISUOD OU] JsUTese pIeNs sTy UO WHY 3nd Oo} pey | ‘AuseyD 
op [Nowy JUNODSIA WIM eIOdO sy} JO SITIO SY) OVUT UMOP 
ouos Suraey ‘osnesoq AjuO WI jo uayods savy | “UeJopuSZeyy 
Jo smoy Asoy ou} Jo yOlqns a[quua} oy dop 0} Joyoud | Ing 


XNOAFT UOJSV) 722 


- yo 
Woy} 30S PfnoM yed Mo UO sjUSMIOAOU Jey ABS PfNod OU, 
“AJJDIYOWUO ND UISaq 0} Noge sdeysod a1oM sanyo} sy) ‘soz 
‘AjTeoneumoyne 3 op 0} sdeysod pue ‘rey[99 party} om 
JO UONDATp oY} Woy aye] oy) Aq osnoy oy) preNs 0} popusjur sem 
JOquIvYS SIN}IO} SY} Jey} SUT 0} o[qQIsne{d s)Inb pourses 3 osned0q 
‘Ajoyes INO soJuvIeNS JOU P[NOM 7 ‘JaAgMOY ‘JOU PIP sy JI UdAq 
‘FoquIBYD 91N{IJO} oY} UI SIOM 9M MOUY JOU PIp Jo}suOUI oy) ye) 
edoy [IHS pfnos | Joy “yUsTIs 9q 0) WY pouoHoU ATsNoOJO3IA | 
< GJOWEUW Ot} S.JeYMA,, ‘Ppoyse pue sty) pooyjou nory 
: ‘Joquieyo SNOUILJUI 9} JO sTTeM oy) 
JOAO YSIP Pol [I] SI POAOUI | se puey AW UT Yooys wiajue, AW 
"a0BJ AU UO JNO SYOIq JBaMs Poo yng ‘A[pyeMOd JOU We 
J jJaquIVYS OINjIO} 94) UT ‘3907 INO ye OSSe] Oy} MES T MOU puy 
‘eHSIseUr 
Surururexs ue Jo AjIsouMd oy} posnose savy yYySIU pue yn3jyeo 
jo opetm AyaAnounstp AIOA st yoryM ‘ossey qefung oy Aeme 
OYe} O} YORG auIOd pey oY ‘JOAO J SUTYUIY) UO ‘Ing ‘USP SIY 0} 
soyoeoidde ay) Suiprens ur wy dyoy prnom yey) Jou) snonns 
-Iadns OY} SSBdIOUT 0) JO ‘ofdwexo ue se s10y) WW SuIsuey pue 
adOYDT] ap 10Y aT Wo adeid yos OY) 0} HW SuIs8erp ‘Apoq om 
JO pir yoS 0) Surluem ‘yx oulZeuN AjIseo plnoo | ‘pasuey 
sem oy Jaye A[UO I JI INO sWOD pue JoqUIeYD sIMI0} oy) 
OUI Use} PEY BY ‘pasofd suojs oy} sJOJoq osessed oy pon 
pey 00} oY ‘SNOLMD ‘sJeT[99 py) oy} UI SAOU sUO}s oy) OpeUT 
YU uoym ‘usesun ‘SuTUSAS oUO BuUTyDjem Us0q sAeY }SNW 
oy ‘OUI ayI] ‘pueyoseys jorys oy} ‘yonbng ydasog 10} pasn 
useq Apealye pey jy yey} PoouAUOD sem J “SUTUOAS Te Yon 
OS popeolp pey [ yey) ossey qefung oy) puNoy | 3203 Ino IV 
juviapuezey] JO sInoy 
Asoy 94} JO Jaquieyo a1nj10) oy) Jo eortjdar Joexo ue sem ydeoz ysnf 
pey 9M YOM OJU! WOO oy) Jey) MES | UOYAM ‘osnoY s.Jo}sUOUT 
OU} Ul aIoM J pue [NoeY se uooOS se ‘UOTeUIO}sUOD Au oUIZeULT] 
‘903] UOT ay} Jopun yesodsip sty ye 19] 
SBM Jey) OsseT qefung & YIM SuLayyns sry pus 0} pomorye sXemye 
sem oy ,.“Ysnous pey,, pey Jaquieyo ainjio} oy) Ul sUOOUIOS 
WOU “UBlopuazey Jo sInoy Asoy oy) Jo wed pourseun Ayjans0 
SOU OY} SBM JI ‘pura AU OF “71 UI posed aJoMm Yeap 0} pouep 
-u0d siauostiid ATUO ‘Iajjns USZID ssvjo-o[ppru suIOs SuTyeUN Aq 
J[PSIOY POsnule VUEI[NS IPI] OY} YOTYM UI sosed are Joy ydooxg 
‘Joqureyd 91njJ0} sy seM [[@ JO snoJoSuep pue ‘snows ‘aIq 


€c¢ VaddO SHL dO WOLNVHd SHI 


"* * “Yt pezrusosel J “i poziu 
-30001 [ ‘JoquIeYyo 91N}I0} 9Y) PUNOIe spI[s 0} ponuyUOS UsO}UL] 
Aw Jo 143 pol oyy, ‘sn UO UMOP poYysIom sOUCTIS SuTUMpOYyM 
-I9AO UY ‘ssayuonou Ayaynjosqe uleual Oo} [NOeY posi | 


XNOAI] U0jSVS PIC 


SCC 


"ATSVIPSUTUT UNSOq SARY P[NOM soinjIO} oy) ‘aray} oIOM 
OM UMOUY pey oy fl JY} oINs sem | puy “Joquieyo o1nj10} oy} OUT 
POYOO] 91NII0} Jo SIOAOT YOTYM YSnoIy MOPUIM JIT SIQISTAUT 
oy} aso[d 0} pey savy ATUO plnom OH “WIY Jeoy j0U pIp om 
EY} I 0} US9S DALY P[NOM OY SSTMIOY}O JOJ ‘asnoy szy UT soUDSaId 
INO JO SIEMEUN SEM JOJSUOU OY} Jey} PSOUIAUOD MOU se J 
‘Q0uaTIs SUC] B Aq POMOT[OJ ‘UOT JoyJOUR sem dIOU]L, 
“QOIOA S.I9JSUOU 94} PoZTUSOII J 
«, YOIVUE [eJOUNJ B IO YEU SUIPPOM Y j}I SABO] JO W oyey],, 
‘SplOM 9soy} preoy APOUT)SIp 
am Ayjeuty “Apyst) oJoul ue s.jnoey poddu3 | ‘ueow jnp e sem 
o10Y} pue “WOO! }x9U oY) UT SUIsO[D pue Suruado Joop kv Jo punos 
OY} O¥I] SBM FE ISM YW “IJ INO 0} punos v preay om ATUOppNs 
‘J[OSUITY UTeYSOI 0} a[qGe 9q JOU 
YSU oY prese sem J ‘ONdSOl Jay 0} SUIOD peY oy Jey) s90URT] sTY 
0} jNOYs 0} Apeol ‘SuLOAIND sem oF ‘Ue Ss [noeY poddus pey | 
‘ssulsuey JoJ—youelqg 
UOT S}I YIM 9AJ} UOIT oy) ‘JOWIOD OUO UT 903) UO] oy) poziuU 
-SOdaI Ose | pue ‘WOY) PozIUZOdaI | ‘sox “poyejOI oq pnoo yey) 
SUIMIP 0} PSOE SIOLTUI JO SJUSUITOS 9JOM SIOUWIOD 9Y} Ul B[QISIA 
A[resjD “woyog 0} do} WOT SIOMUTU YIM PaaAOd alam s]yeM 
Sj JO XIs [TY “WOOl [euOsexoY [[eUs & JO SPP oY) NI TWN aM 


(AYOLS S.NVISUAg IHL AO NOILVNNILNO[)) 


Iaquivy. aN}AO], 3y} UT 


tc 


QM Jey) UOTIPUOS sq} UO ATUO SeM }I PU ‘sn JOJ JOOp st pousdo 
oUNSIIY. Jt ATUO JoquIeYyo 91N{I0} 34) SABOT MOU P[NOd 9A 
"Jo}SUOU 94} 0} UMOTYUN 
‘gouasaid mo Jo azeme Joy oyeUl WYSIW 9M MOY Jo ATUO JYSsNOY} 
OM Puy .,‘][eM ou} JO opis Jao oy} UO SUTSTIYD Ys] Soy 
agkey],, ‘SPATISINO 0} ples oA4 “adoy eB sem SOUDTIS YoRD ‘sn JO7 
‘90ugTIS VW 
_ ou Sumy o1,nok Mouy nox {sutAIO 
no ore AYAA,, ‘Ppoyse oy WOU IdIjOS suIeDAq SOIOA SITY UU], 
< {oul 
SAO] 1,UOPp NOX jd SAOT },UOP NOX jIW SAO] },UOp NOZ,, 
"JeO1U} 
SIyY WO] }SINq [IeM SIY} SOW oI], “URDDO Ue JO INULINU 9) 
SB [NJUINOU! se pue IeOI & SB PNOT Sv SVM UONRUOW] Sy 
“SooUy Joy je Jo}SUOU 34} WIM 
‘yno AID 0} YSUATS oY} SUIALY IasUO] OU ‘IOLIOY Wo, ssopyooods 
‘sn JO JUOIJ UI [JEM JY} JO Opis Joyo ou} UO sdeysod ‘oroyMoUOS 
SUIpue}S USI9Q SAY JSNUI SYS ‘OUTISIYD JOJ sy “JOswIYy YU 
WOI, SWS UOTLIUOWIL] [NJIYSUJ sty} JY) POzUsOdeI | pue [Novy 
‘gyelodsop s1ow SuryjAue preay IOAOU SARY [ “JOpNoy, pure Jopnoy 
auledeaq UOOS dACT Jo AuvyT SITY} poruRdmodoe yey} SULOU SILL, 

_, OW WIM paseoyd nod JoAgzeYM Op prnod nod pue 
quire] & Se apJUas 9q P.J ‘AU PdaoyT NOA J] ‘poaoT oq 0} SEM Popoou 
JOA J [[W@ ‘poos 9q OF [90S [[,NOA pue dU SAOT ‘URU peq B 
Ayjeor JOU UL] ING jdUI Jo plelse o1.noX jSutAIO o1,noX * * * ‘ams 
-eajd WOIJ sIp 0} Apeol 31,9M []T} SUIS [],dM ‘OUOTe SOATOSINO 
JO} BUls [[,9M PUY ‘UoWOM Jo jsorddey ou} 9q [[,NOX ‘oul Je YOO] 
0} WIN) USAd },UOM d[doog ‘URUT ATBUIPIO Ue YI] YOO] SU SoyPUI 
yey} YSeUl & PoyJUSAUT 9A,J ‘SABpuNsg UO Joy WWM SuUTyeM yNO 
OS pUe as[od OUOAIOAD OYI] AJIM B OARY O} JULM J “OSTO DUOAIOAD 
OI] SAT] O} UBM JT MOU puUP ‘poysUly st yunydwunisy uonr uogq 
jaJOur & ayT] ‘oTOY & UT ‘puNoIZIopuN ‘sIy} dyI] SUTAT] UO O83 },uUkd 
] ‘oul JOJ sy jyUeM Nod yeYM MOUY pue pul INOA dn oyeU Jsnuw 
nox jwoopMsew sj °° * ~YoeW SUIppom we seoJoyM,, “poulins 
-O1 DOIOA SY .,‘[nylooyo Apoexe },UST YORU [eJoUNy yv,, 

"S[BAIOWUI Je Ieay pynoos om yYsNOY) OM 
Zuluvoul asoym ‘oveq sUTsSUYD Wo WY poyesedoas yey) s[Tem 
OU} Ysnory} yeoiq 0} SUIAN JO 93JOA SY} UO SeM OH ‘STO SUI) 
-AUB UY} BOW! SSOUSAIS[NdUN s.[nOeY popeap |] pue ‘I MOUy 
WITY 32] 0} JOU SN JOF [BNUSSO SBA I] “7 MOUY JOU pip oy pue WITY 
0} 9SOJD SJOM 9M ‘WITY JOAO DSeURAPR 3Iq & PRY IIOJOIO] 9AM 


xXNOdIT U0jSD 97Z 


<. Pong pue peap st SUOAIOAD ‘OU S,jI JI ‘OU JO SOX,, :puESIopun 
AjesUS JOU PIP SUNSLIYD YOrM sploM osoy} pres pey YU” puy 

"YoreW [elouny eB pue YoIeU SUTIppom B UsEMIOq 

‘yt ind pey sy se ‘ascOYyo 0} savy USY) prnom sys ‘ouTTpEop 

[BUI OY} SEM EYL, “IOAO FI UI) 0} IYSTU SUIMOTIOJ 9U) YOO]D.0 

UdAZTI TH Joy UsAIS pey BA “YOINYD suUlojapeyy oy) Jo ysoud 

OY} BOJoq PUL SOTITIOYINE [EAIO OY} JO SOAS OY} UI OJIM SITY OUIODAG 

0} JUSUOO JOU PIP YS JI J[ASWITY pue SUOAIOAD [[TY 0} poploep pey 

pue sao] WIM peut Afo}o[dwios suos prey Yq ey) spJoM poLMyYy 

MOF B UI SN PO} SYS “WoHeysoy ynoyIM UeU ZUNOA 9y} [[P] WOU) 

PINom oy Joj ‘aoe[d SuIpry sty JOAOOSIP pjnom yuy preye sen 

sys “Ajoyerpourut Aeme 08 0} [nowy poyueM YG ‘JOUS) years Aq 
Popesoons UOoOs seM Joy IYsnoIg pey om Aol yomb-oo} oy} yng 

‘asnoy 

$ Yq Jo JaJoes oy} Mouy OYM UOTUedUIOD poJOAop & Jo soURpINs 

oY} WIM Joy 0} SUIOD 0} s[Qe Ua0q peYy sy Jey) pue ZuTWeOIp 
jou SBM YS Jey) UTeSe pue uUrese Joy [[9} WI spew sys 
< {[Noey jjnory,, 

., MOUY Sn Jor ‘Jo}sUOUT Oy) Jesy No 

SB UOOS SY j[Nyored 9q Ng ‘NOA JARS 0} DIOY B,aAQ jSUNSLYD 
‘OUI JSNIJ, [Wap B jOU Sj] [OW S.I],, ‘POLIO OY ,.jSOX jSaX,, 
‘OUIBU S [MOBY PAINULMU! SIOA S,SUTSHYD Uo] 

{OWL JOMSUB “OUTBU S,UdABOY UT ‘oUOTe O1,nOA J] joUNSIIYD 
‘OU JOMSUY,, “SOUDTTIS ,,j[NORY ‘oW S.J] jOUNsSUYD jouNsiuy>, , 
.< 7 7 “Surweoyp uL,],, 

"SN POYOVaI SOIOA JUTE] B AyTeUT] 

"SOUN} [BIOAVS [ed sty yeadar OF pey oy 390A ‘OJ9Y) preay oq ATaIns 
P[Nos sy ‘UIOOI JOyjJO 9Y} UT pres seM JeYA JeoY P[NOd aM ddUIS 
« /SUHSHYY jouNsnyo,, 
‘Joy Sures Apeorye sem pnoey 

jWOOI JXOU OY} UI SUOTE SEM SUTISLIYD :Suryy ouo ATUO pozipear 

J ‘OWLIS MOU B IMO 0} ATUO. no SuUIOs oq YSU IqjsUOU 

oY} Jey) 10310] | ‘a0e[d oye) 0} JNOgGe sem JeIN JOLIOY MoU dy} JO 
YU) 0} SUIT) OU peY J ‘poso[d Joop eB ‘Aeme poaoul sdajs}00,7 

., JOOP 9y) UsdO 0} UdTIs SY) [[9} pue O8 | apy 

O1oy SUI JOJ WEA {SN QIMSIP 0} SMIOD S,OUA,, “Ysney Jo}stuIs 

V ..{Ul SWIOD ssed[q jSUISULI S,sUOOUIOS,, :Od10A snoJapuNy) sty 

ud} pue ‘oJ sty 0) deo] YIT_ presy 9AA “]]9Q OLQOSTO ue Jo punos 
ay} Aq WoxYOIQ SBM WIOOI }XOU SY} UI DdUdTIS oy) ATUOppNS 

"sn puNnoJe sTyeM oy} UT oq 

JYSTM JOOP oY} SIOYM MOUY USA 3OU PIP aM Joy ‘Joy day pynoo 


LCC VaddO AHL JO WOLNVHd SHI 


jHoey j[Moey ,“Weop pue opt] Jo Seq opt oy, seo oy yey Seq 
JoyJeI] BPI] & UT WJOQ o1,AdY], “YONO} 0} JOU OU PorOpJO Osye oY 
yey) Ady ozuolg Joyjoue YIM ‘UeSIO oY} Jesu ‘WOOIpPaq 9Y} UT,, 
“9SO] 0} JUDTIOUT 
B OAPY JOU pIp OM asned0q ‘oSIeYS oye) OW Jo] pue suIjoU 
Aes 0} [nowy 3ury[s} Jaye ‘poyse J ,.(Aoy oy) SI soy M,, 
“peqqos sus 
«<{[9IPUNOdS 9Y} “YO 
"+ + *kny8n AoA pon Ul. ng,, ‘opew isnf pey sys Woo ot} Wo 
poysneyxs pouloes oYM ‘OUNSIYD pres ,,‘St I aIoyM MOU J,, 
_, JOOP yeu} 0} ADJ 
ou} Savy YSNUI 9MA,, “Ples | ,,‘afins Aq ATWO odeosa ued 3M,, 
"spuog Joy WIJ J[OSIOY SoIJ 0} SuTUTeYS Joy presy 9, 
‘QO10A [NJIV9} S,UBUIOM SUNOA 9} poyse ,,{MOY Ing,, 
., Joop yey) usdo 
0} NOK JOJ yemUassa AToNfOSqe S.}I,, ‘ples | ,,‘o[[aslowopeyy,, 
<< puly 0) Aseo aq 1,u0m Ao) pue ‘YstamIoJUNODS 
e pue Suuds e WIM suodo WI opis mo UO Inq ‘JOOP AzeUIpIO 
ue oy] ‘Ay & WJIM Opis Joy}O oy) UO suddo 3],, “YSsNoW | 
66 ‘SoX,, 
“poyse J ..gYoO[ & savy HW S90, 
<< SE WE aJOyM MOUY p.NoA udp 
pue I UO. yoouy p.J ji 0} Jfeshur Sep pynoo | yuo Ft ‘YO,, 
<< JOOP 94} 99S 1, UOP aM JNq ‘soX,, 
. gFOQuUIeYyo 91NjZIO} OY} UI O1,NOA UdTLL,, 
.,JJ00p Jey} JO Apis JoyjO oY} UO 37,9M ‘OUTISYD,, 
_, JOQUIBYD OINZIO} SY} 0} JOOP sy} :sJOOP [Te 
JO SnoJasuep }soUu dy) S,11 ‘sAes ay ‘asnedaq HI YSNoIy) OF 0} IOA9 
QUI USPPIgio} Soy pue UT JO JO UT OUO JoyJO oy) poudsdo DAD 
S,d4 Inq ‘sIOOp sy) JO 9UO YSNoI) INO pue UT Sd0d Yq “[nory 
‘moqe nok po} | woos oddi[ryg-smnoy s4}—WooIpeq AU ul 
sIOOp Om) ATUO ae IOUL,,, “‘Poyse oys ,,{NoA aie soy 3ng,, 
jJaY oNdsal pue Jay 0} 305 0} peYy 9A “JUSUOAOU Jo WOpsaly 
S$ oUNSLIYD UO popuodop ‘sn Jo sary) [Je Joy ‘AJQJVS INO ‘oseI 
Jo Alo & YOR Ploy JOU P[NoOd | pue [noeyY ‘sit prwsy om VOU 
<, QAOUL }, ued T “dn poy UW] ‘ON,, 
Gg}! JO ams oyeul nod ued,, 
‘QSNOY OY} IO] OALY YSNUI oY Jey} Palomsue oYS 
“poyse | ..gS! Yq ooyM sn []o} NOA ueD,, 
‘syy3noy) Suypedde Aut 0} uorstoald o[QLLIS) UTA 
popuodsazioo Aoy) osnedeq ‘TJom o}INnb Woy) poojsiopun | ng 


XNOLF] U0jSDS) 87Z 


“poyeald JOO oy) Ulese pue 
‘poddojs voy ‘Tem oy) poyovordde Ajmojs sdaysjooy KAvoqzy 
‘JUOTIS [[OJ SN JO soy) oY], 
.1}9INO,, 
<« ZoquIeYyD omMyJ0} 94) UI 
O1,9M PUY jSABd] },URd 9A\,, “Joy UO Sp1OM Au ssozduut 0} ‘A]TeO 
-Heyduro pres | ,,‘0} poyuem om JI UdAO ABM O8 1, UpP[NOd 3M, 
< [ABMB OF jABME OD jABME OD [ALY SI] Oy] 
ou) Aq [Jes oY} UI SuIMpoulos Jeoy | jYS,, ‘sn 0} pres ays ing 
., NOA Suny 
ose spuog MOA UTY [JO} ‘UITY Bog ‘WITY Je O[TUIS 0} JoquIOUIOYT, , 
[IF 30BIOJ pynoo | ATWO Ft ‘YO,, 
<< NOA SBAOT 9Y JLY} JOBIOJ 1,U0g "308 Jo 
pury 143i oy) uO Sutnd Aq 3 Op WY ayeuI RD NOX ‘no onUN 
[1.24 pue dn noX por 1sjsuow oyj,, ‘pres | ,,‘o]Jastoulapey,,, 

«¢ SALT 9U) Aq [ye oy) Ysnory) oBessed 
oY} asopo pue uedo WY preoy | ‘ou0s ATjeal sof “YOT OH “YA 
}0U S.}I ‘ON,, ‘SN oinssvar 0} AQ plnom sys puy ‘3uLLIMs Jo Os 
sulos ‘da}s}00j & ‘preoqiooyy Suryeoso & preoy pey om WYSnoy) om 
esnevdeq soUazUeS B JO o[Ppl oy) ul poddoys uayo oq “oJoy 3 Sur 
-QUISSUBI] UT OJBOIPUT 0} 9[QeB U90q SARY | UY) [NPI pue snonnes 
OJOU YON seM [TBM SY} YSNoIy}) UOTeSIOAUOD sTOYM IU], 

., J4sTu MOLIOWO} 
YOO]I,O USAII9 [[M SIP 0} pomoyye jou uy ‘dn our pan oy os,, 
“Ppaqqos 00} oy pue ‘pouvoul [noey , ,jauNsuy5,, 
<< S]J@M oy) Jsurese peoy Aut Surpunod Aq jyasAur 
ITE] 0) poy p,J—Apooyq soey Aur punoy oy ‘yoeq cures oy UDy A, 
jJoyueq SITY da8 0} SUIOS seM oY ‘UITY 0} SUIPIODOW ‘UIT B IO] 
OUI Joy pue Aeme USM OY “POULIOJOIOTYO Jey ‘snorosuooun soy 
OW JYSNOIg SY USYM SUIUSAS 9Y} UC ‘J[OSAW [[F{ 0} Por J,, 
co WE 
SMOUY oy puv ssnoy sty Wo AVME UNI },Ued NOX ZaT[osTouapeul 
‘dn nof 913 ay pip AYA, ‘1009 dooy ysnul oM JNg,, "pres | .,‘punos 
pue ayes aloy JO yno 303 3M JOOYM sn UO spuodep J1,, 
<<{204}030} SIp 
JO JoyjJas0} DIOY SALI] JOYIIO [],OM,, ‘NOVY pres ,.‘ounsuyD,, 
<,JouWeU Jey) Aq poyfed st Woor oy} UOSeal 
B oq JSNUI doy], jawed NOA Aem oY) DARI] jJOqUIeYO oIN1JO} SI) 
UI aI,noA puy ‘Aylues JO porYs ySe] SITY SSOT 0} JNOGe sI yl pue 
“S[QUIA} puB sNOLIo}sAUI st oloy SuTMpAIOAW jABMe 303 JsNUT NOX 


6C2 VaadO YHL dO WOLNVHd FHL 


i3uns 
Zuroq sseul wornbal & presy MOU OM UWOYM JOF 9UO OU) , “URW 
Joyo ou},, SEM OUAA LOUM .,iponuN s.syg,, -7eo AUI UT SpIOM 
o13eul osoy) porodsiyM [Hoey usyM UdAd ‘UlOsEIENs s,oUNSHYD 

ul Surstofor- Wo oul poywoAeld ysowye WIY Jo 3YysNoY} UL, 
LaIOYS Jey) 0} pokes pey oy ueU JOOd oy} SEM OUM 
‘IjeM youyq-jaf oy} JO jNO SUIOD peYy yey} SUITE OM} SY} Poroq 
-WIOUIAI | pUy ‘UOHOU UI JOINS SuruTeM SUIOS Jos SABY ISNUT 
[ {2sINOd Jo ‘I SUIMOUY OPI ‘JOOP S,Ja}SUOU 9Y} ye SuNI sOU0 

pey 00} [ ‘WUoUMMUSsoId a[qIuIe) eB pey | ‘spJom osoy) SuLeoH 
_ ssew wombeal sty Suts jsnul J ‘yyeop 
Jo Surqeadg ‘Weop oArosop OUI OYBUI 0} YSnoud st oUCTR YL {J 
},UpIp ‘Woy yNyY | jSUNSLYD ‘sIslIm InoX jpop AW * °° “papun 
a.nox {poses nod ary ‘punose uiny ‘oroyy, * * * Ox] PoyYOo] ay 
‘]JOM—OYP] OI) JO Woo oy} 3 ST[aq Aue SUISUIT soy Jey} IQnOp 
J—ou snl JOOp S,Uals oy) Je Sue OYM UR sy, “SUOeUTONTTeY 
oaRy [ YU) | ‘oUNSLD ‘mouy nox ‘sdop pue sjeo SUIUTPI S 1] 
‘Jno dUOS SARY 1,UPTNoYs | ‘Surpep Au ‘YY {39M UJ ssnedeq SUI 
ye ZUTYOO, 21,NOX “WeIFTUSIsUT st as[9 SuIpAIOA_ “WJeop UMO 
INO Jo ‘JIT Sty} UT SaATosIMO Jo ATWO YUIY prnoys 9A {YSIPTIYO 
S.JI—OSOIpUeIS OY} WIM ‘UINIO.EP YIM possasqo useq sAeMe 
9A,J °° * ‘Jajqou aq pynom i osneseq ‘sok ‘YY {YSU MOIIOUIO} 
YOO]D,0 USAITO TT WeM AU [ISU ar,nok “WYSI o1,nNoX ‘auoduaaa 
sof ‘kjoyerpaurUt J9AO 9q [Te [TEM IE pue .‘ON, ‘prom e Aes 0} ATWO 
oaey Nox © * * ‘nod ayUN [],] ‘eAOUT },UOp “WeAA {puRIsIopun Nod 
‘00} JI] SY} JO YSnous pey oA,J ‘sox °° © aye NOA se Any e Jo 

YONU! SB UI WJ dOUIS puUe ‘19t}930} SIP [],AM DOUTS “Te IsIfV,, 

“IOO]J Sy} ssosoe A[MO]S POAOU! urese sdo}s}00J SY], 

MEA ‘JYFUW MOUOUIO, YOoID,0 UdAIA []} OU oaes NOX,, 

. UTese Faso [[P{ 0} AN [].NOA,, 

., Jouosuid Mod 9q [NS [].J “SUl oUN osedId,, 

| .< NOX pouaysuy p.J Wysnow J,, 

.< {ug ‘ured ul ury asneseg,, 
<gaunsuyD “no Ard nod pip AqAA,, 
‘Tnos @ jo ssXqe oy) Wo SuTMOD ‘a[qepruMoy aloul ‘Jodoep 
‘yZIs JomouY ,,° °° ‘WNey S,UdIIs oY} SI] “ST I SUNT} JeYM Ase 
ureSe JOA0U ]],oH (WN oy) Woy) yse J Op ‘Aq ssed afdoed usy AA 
{Suu sy pip AYA “Ney s,ueUT Jomo sy) $I] [90s ued NOA se 

‘93e)S OUT] B UT WL,] j20ey B YONs NOX SUTMOYS JOJ SUI SATSIOL,, 
‘QOIOA S YU preoy om pue ‘ouNsuyD wo 

Jo0y JO £10 & Aq POMOTOJ “YSIS S[QUpIUJOJ B SVM SIOy) US], 


XNOAFT U0jSV*) 0€Z 


<g5Dq Ku YIM auop nok aavy wYM,, 
:Sorqey AS orye}OU 
9say} NO payeis APOUTSIp ‘poulojsuen ‘posueyo ATUsppns ‘d10A 
ou} puy “][eM 94) Wo Yorq MIP | pue [noey yey) ssowdniqe 
Surpueys yons YIM poddojs sd10a oy pue ueSIO ay) udu], 
‘Jopuny) Jo pos oy} oy] Sues apy jJOAou 
‘sIq} O¥f] SUIs WY preoy JoAoU pey | Ing ‘soRTed URIJOpUSZEW 
oy} JO syje@M oy} UO ‘SUIS s[[Nq popeoy-ueUINY oUO}s AW oyeUl 
O} SB JBJ OS BUS USA pey oY fosINOD Jo ‘alojoq ZuIS UY preoYy 
pey [ ‘Sn punole summysy pue Jopuny) pey om ‘sox “WIO}S & 
oy] sn padojaaus Sues ALI yey} avuz saig sy) yey) JoquIOUIAI | 
‘fT [eUIOJUI Ue UI SUIOUep sUOUTAP PpoyOAd }I ‘punosZ1opun 
doop ‘oloy], ‘poulep oy) JOJ sseul e Oy] DIO sem J ‘sseUr 
wainbar oy} AjUO presy oA MOU ynq ‘soUBIDAITEP INO Joy SUI 
-onoeid sem ays uondesep oy} ‘Iay0q uoNdecep ATIM s.oUuNSTIyS 
Jeoy 0} [[BM-JOMIUW oy) JsuTese Jeo ue 3nd YyoRd pey | pue jnoey 
‘IaAInb yes oy) JO sfamoq oy} opeul pue oye] 2y3 Aq osnoY 
SOYA oY} YOoyS 3] jsulsurs snowny pue oulyqns yeyM ‘UY 


TE? VaidO FHI dO WOLNVHd SHL 


CEC 


‘JSNSMU Syl SUISeOIOUT 
ul ATUO popasoons sABY ISNT J Je osTey Os SueI W YSnoyy 
‘myAejd oq 0} popuajur sys ou0} eB UT poppe sys ,j ASOLO 
QUTUTWIZ] Sj] ‘OW! Wo uoppry idoy shemye oA,NOA dUO 9y,, 
‘palomsue sys ,,“UddS JOAQM 9A,J WOOI Jey} 99S 0} OFT P.I., 

_.( Woy) YIM Op 0} JUeM NOA OP JUAA,, “Pres 
oy ,./3eq au) ul Say OA) OIe SIDY} VU} [TAM AIOA MOUY NOZ,, 
‘yj90) SuTSWeYO UsEMJ9q UDyOds sploM sAT}dadep ATYSIP|TYS Yons 
Aq Ul Uaye} 9q JOU P[NOd JoJsUOTT oY} ING “JOII9} JOY SUIODIOAO 
0} IZuaNs Zurureulos Joy [Te osn Oo} pey savy ysnuI [13 Jood oy], 
‘ray soy Aid yoy | yeu AVM Surpquien e Yons UT STy) pres syg° 

_< SU 0} SSUOTAq sINOA S.jeU) SUIyPAIOAT {Seq Jey) YOO) | FI 

NOA 0} SYLUI HI SOOP JOUAIAZFIP yeYA ‘19Y}9S0} DAT] 0} SUIOS aI,OM 
SoulS,, “YSIS & YIM ples ouNsuYD .,“yWyY ‘oul 0} US)sTy,, 

<LUeop pue agi] Jo 3eq 

oY) Sj MOUY NOA },U0q jseq AUI Yorq OUI 9AIH,, “JOY POMOT[OJ 
pey 3ey) so10A AiZue oy) pres ,.jAeme Suruuns nod are AYM,, 

“Tes 

INO JO JUOA, UT SBNjor oye} 0} YSnoy se ‘wooIpsq addriyq-sino’] 
au) OJUT yoVq poy suNsIIYD se sdays}ooy prides preoy 9A 

..joeq AU O¥e} 

p[nos nod og {nok anun 0} ow payuem nod AY S.Jey) OS,, “PIP 

OM UeY) sou Aue po[quiey aAey jOU JsNUI oUTISLIYD pue ‘ATsNo 

-LInJ poyeodal 9010A ou) ,.¢3eq AW JIM SUOP NOA AAVH LVHA,, 


(AYOLS S.NVISUA J JHL iO NOLLVNNILNO?)) 


ulgag sanyo], ay 


VC 


SB SBA I] “JUST YIM papoory oom aM dU Ye [TW ‘AyooNDWOMD 
uesoq aslo SuryjAUe UY} SIOU polesy pey J yeYyM puy 
coi IQ ISOHYSTS 
9} JOU “SIOWAUL SUL ISOIOJUI },USOOP IT MOU JNq ‘ony s.j1 ‘snouNs 
Sem J ‘JoqUIeYyS aIN}I0O} ey) WIM ‘plo e oIom JT YSnoy se 
‘ou SuTUaYysuy sARMje aJoM NOX j]fe ye JOU ‘aJouAUe WOOL Jey} 
UI PoysoISIUT JOU U,] [Yep oy JO presye wo ],, “Surkp aiom ays 
Jf SB POPUNOS FLY} SOIOA & UT ples sUSHYS ,,jpreye ul] ‘soz,, 
«<QNOA are ‘yBOYJEOMS SUTAOT INOA YM aI,Nok UoyM Yep oy 
jo presye jou al,nox “3YSt] 9y) yNO jnd S.Jo] MON “yoeq st ureyNs 
ap ‘ooy © °° “aay ISI] oy) Jno Ind pue ureyNd YorTq ou) Yor 
[Ind st op 0} savy J [TV “SUTII99 om JeoU ‘oroy) dn ‘mopurM 21q 
-ISIAUE OU} WIJ IYSI] 908 [[,NOA ‘Joquieyo au UT AT[eaI S,sUOCSIOS 
JI ‘uajsry {Nod pnoAy {90S 0} Oy] NOA pfnoAA ‘JoquIeYdS omN7I0) 
oy} ul Surusddey s,jeym ses 0} Joop oy) usdo 0} psou OU s,a70I) 
‘sao, AU ‘OUNSLIYD sp] Sursep AP ‘no pury oO) Aseo s.I],, 
‘ysne[ Juesevoidun Joujouy 
.<i8Y) MOUY NOX [9OUeTF OU sARY | INg,, 
<ipouRly Mok ogkey,, 
<,{9UO ON,, 
<. (PUBIsSIopUN I, 
PUY “osyoy} ovo OU $104 L,,, 
«,{PUeSJopuN | MoU ‘YY ‘JoquIeyd a1njJ0) oy) UI dUO 
-SUIOS S ,QOYL, [J presy | jpoynoys suoswiog jsutA] o1.noX ‘josdn 
[Te o1,nod ‘Surjquisy o1,nox * * * AVA & YONS UT yey) Avs NOZ,, 
<¢ SUTYJOU pJeay { ynq ‘our yMY NOA 
asnedeq ‘Mou ysnf yno PoLId | {OSNOY sty) UT oJaY UMOP ‘paynoys 
saey pfnos ou {xU_ ‘pur moX sursoy nod ary {ponoys,, 
<¢ POMOYS SUOCCWOS JeY} SUI 0} Pauses 4], 
.. Bure Jesy },Uptp | ‘ou ‘on,, 
« GOUnSHY) 
‘3 Ievay Nod Pig,, ‘JO}SUOU OY} Poyse ,.{7ey) sem JVUAA,, 
“Ayjened 
ATWO popessons | Inq ‘yNOU! sTy JoAO puey Aw Bund Aq wy 
DOUSIS 0} POL J ‘JosuoT Aue JOswIY [oNUOD 0o} s[qeuN ‘fnoeY 
wo o3e1 ssojdjoy Jo Ao we Aq palomsue sem ured Jo AIO Jopy 
"Joy Woy 3eq sy yorq uoye} ysnl 
pey oH ‘ured Ur jnO pollo oUNSITYD sym poysne] oy puy 
«1S Op] Sansmnbur 
no ‘ouoye Ay WY) OAvT] jYOeQ I SAID “Seq Au yorq oul JAIs 
‘suoZ) ‘days oA yowem pue pseogon{g jo AI0}s oy) Joquioulal 
Joyaq P.NOX,, “‘PpsHojal oy ,,“USWOM SNOLMS oy] },UOp J,, 


€€? VaadO AHL tO WOLNVHd FHL 


_ (odeospue] sy) oy] NOA Op Moy Ing °° * aUO 
OU Salou} ddUTS {NOX sre “juTey 0} SuIOd Jou ar,noX ‘sUIOd ‘TOD 
LOUNSLYD ‘Joyeur oy) s,yeUAA © * © “JoNEq OY) YONU OS “T]9M,, 
., oU0 ON ‘ans ayInb ‘soX,, 
.qams no aly jou0 ON,, 
(4g Jeop Aur ‘Joquieyo oy} UI oUO OU S,dIOU],, 
:peoyJoAo 
Wioly uayods spiom ssoy) preoy APOUNSIP aM Joye, JUOWIOW VY 
_ jZeQuUIBYS amNzJO} SU} 
OJUT JopueM ISAOU p,Ady) SUMO ITO} JO SsOU B ‘SSOU B SABY 0} aIe 
Kau Ayon, Moy poziyeos ajdood J] “oYI] SYOO] sou sty JeYM OUI 
112} 1[.NOA ‘oe Aur ye “WoJzo yey) ow areds 0} NOA Jo ao AIOA 
S.J {JAMS OS aI,NOA ‘Surpep ap] Aw ‘Surprep opty Aw “yy,, 
<</OUl OT “908 pue 08 77,] ‘ON,, 
., sulpep Aut ‘ypasAur 
WH Op [LJ 1y8noy puoses uo ‘ON,, “YA pres ,.“dn quiypD,, 
"TTeM oup ysurese poysnd suteq Joppey] stp presy | 
ce OMT 
‘SOOT OSOU STY JYM UL []9? [],NOA pIemIayyy © * © OU TIS? [].NOZ 
‘MOPUIM SPIT OY) YSNoIy] sos puke sWIOD ‘90S pUe sUIOD,, 
‘UOISIOOp & SULYRUI JOJ sIseq B JO 39e 0} UOSPal B SUI 
9AIZ pinom 31 Zutdoy ‘wool yxoU OY} UI pres sem yeyM UO ApoIUS 
uonusye Au posnooj [ pue ‘ooejed uelopuszej] oY} Ul Mop 
-UIM [I] Oy) Y8noMpP UayJo 00} 99¥)00ds yey) USES ApeoTye pey 
J ‘aul Joy sy ‘soko poropyiMmeq sty alojoq pareodde ysnf pey yey 
gpoejoods sIQIpsIOUT oY} UT poqiosqe sem oY JOJ ‘SOIOA BUTTONS 
S$, dUNSLIYS preoy pey ‘oul opisoq ‘nowy ji MOUY 30U Op | 
_, BUlpep AU ‘90S pUe MOPUIM IIIT SI} 0} SWIOD,, 
« A UOIP[LYS B[V] 1OF 
Aros & ATUO S yey, ZdIUM are ‘SaINjIO} OU oJe SIOY], {SW SAOT NOA 
JE ‘Jey} OUI [JO], joW UsIYsUy 0} Suréy ATUO o1,noA out [aL (AVA 
YL {WOOT VY) UT BIOY} BIB SOINIO} JeYAA * * * SOINIIO} JY A,, 
{B13 apy aanismbur noX ‘1oqureyo ammyi0} oy) JO MOpUIM 
oy) YSnoIpP ZuUryoo] Joy posn sj] jMOUY NOA MOU “T[9A4 ‘JOJ posn 
SEM JI JEYM OU Poyse USO OA,NOX “sIoy) Sj AYM S.jeyyL “Jop 
-pejdajs oy) uo dn quit[d 0} Sutod a1,noX ynq ‘jI 90s },USaOP [Tem 
9Y} JO opts Joyo ay} UO URW OY] jo10y) dQ, ZMOpuIM pojyst] sy 
‘MOPUIM 3U} Gas NOA OP MON j9J9Y} SVM BUOSWOS NOA po} J,, 
"WOO! JX9U 9Y} Ul pasopuny) so10a Argue oy} puy “poles 
-3e3s oy yey} postuidims os sem ‘31 SuNdedxo useq JOU pey OYM 
‘nowy “SWeLF OVUT IsINQ peY [[eM 9U3 JO Opis Mo uo SuIAIOAI JI 


XNOAF] U04JSP*) FET 


‘“MOJS “SW SAO] 777M NOA :JayeU 1,USOOP I ING “OU SAO] },UOp 
No ‘ON j[5Ul SAO] NOX {NOA [TM ‘aJowAue our y0fer },UOM NOX 
Low 0} Suruayst] nox aly °° * OUNSIIYD ep Aw ‘ounsuysy apy 
AI “FYB MOLIOUIO} YOOIO,O UdAI]A JO} WEA OM DITYM somNUTU 
Maj B ssed 0} sn day yseoy 3 [IM I] {SHOU pred oulos nok moys 
0} SUI OT HOA prnom ‘our [Ja] “SyoL pres SuNunod jou ‘adeIs 
Au dn Yom suo uey) aol savy | jOUl YIM porlog oq },.upfnom 
no ‘YY “yoom ot) YsnoMp [ye Joy asnwe pue ‘Aepung uo yem ve 
JOJ INO JOY oye) pue ‘IO SAO] P.J © © * BS[2 DUOAIOAD SFI] AIM VW 
jnoX 0} 7 Suneodear dooy 0} savy },UppNoys | pue ‘ounsuyD “ey 
pULJsIOPUN 0} IYSNO NOX jdS[o DUOAIOAO dT] ‘II UI OJIM poos v 
pue ‘SMOPUIM pue sloop AyeuIpsO UTM ‘jUOWIede yoInb B sAeY 0} 
yueM | [Ysnous ‘ysnous pey 9A,] jXOq powioyjoqg-a]qnop e ur yuRG 
-sJUNOU & SO¥IT pospo, Sulsq Jo yYsnougq jJoquieyo any0} & pue 
‘asnoy AW UI JsoOJ Be ZuIAeY Jo YsnouW {yeay nod op ‘Yysnous 
pey oaA.J °° * ‘pon AIOA ‘polt) UL] Ng ‘SsIByIO OyI] ZurmQAUe Op 
1,uop | ‘o[doad Isyjo oy] JJosAuI ssoidxo JoAoU J ‘oyol v Te sj] 
‘yooods Jo omsty e ATUO S$. ‘das NOX “JaqUIeYO aINIIO} SY) ISOIOJ 
Aur [jeo | AYM S.jeYL jSMoT[es W {SoyouLIg oy) JO oUO UO Ss JeYyM 

puy ‘soyouriq Mes NOX [AUN] {uses noA savy yeYyM UdyT,, 

<<} UsARy J “ON,, 

..¢8paiq Aue uses nod oaey,, 

co SPIT, 

6 6907} B UT SJeYUM pUy,, 

<< {S901L,, 

<oGISOIOF JOY} UT S.JEYM PUY,, 

«¢ WHOS V,, 

-,GUdOS NOA sARY yey ‘SIL ‘opdurts oymb s.37,, 

., JOQUIVYD JINZIO} 9} WooI yeu) [eo NOA AYA ow TIO} INg,, 

;, A@M UMO AU UI ‘STE yeas & UL] ‘sozZ,, 
. SHB WIS B OI.NOA j[NyHNeeq 

AIOA ATTeOl 83] {YA ‘Wool yey) opeur oym ouo oy} Nod ary,, 

<.<GoJ0Y} UO OU S,aIey} aouTs ‘AUAM,, 
GoW pousysiy Aypear 
noA Mouy nod Og ja19U} UT SamMjio}) OU aIe BOY * °° YA ‘oul 

[[93 ING jUNosNY WIAQIDH OY} UT SYIOMXEM OY) SY] S,jI ‘SoX,, 
..G@U) dyI] sodevospury] sos ues 
nof aloym ‘asnoy osueys & SIU} },UST ING “PpoyOxKaIOAO oUIODAq 
},UjJsNUL NOX ‘Joyeq BuIpooy o1,.noA ‘1ayeq oy) YOnU OG {NOA 

},Uale ‘Ioyoq SUT[OOJ au NOX ‘Iay0q BUI[IOJ O1,NOX ‘pooy,, 

<YOnUT ATOA I Sy T “YO,, 


SEZ VaadO FHL JO WOLNVHd SHL 


‘MOU puy "peop pue oj] Jo Seq op] tp WJ, {Aes WI SoOp IVY 
‘Beq Joes] BVI oy) Ul s.jy joysaad ‘mou puy ,jJoddoysseis 
oy) win) | [eys, :o] oy} UO xoq oT 3 UI Shes W yeyM 
0} uajsI'] jo}sald ‘Mou puy ,juOIdIoos 94) UN) | [TeYS, :sAes 
II JeYM 0} UDIST] “JUS oY) UO xOQg OPI] Oy) UT S37 “SuTpep AW 
‘UdISI] jAIOMAIOAS ‘OIOYMAIOAD SOAOU DSIOA AJAY {[PSEN {TTS 
{pnoy Zasojp {Aeme sey oq 0} WI UBM NOA OG jd90Id[a]URU ST} 
UO SOXOQG 91] OY) UT ST 9dIOA AJ j[NOA sastdins yeu) ‘yy {o00Id 
-[o]UeU 9Yy) UO soxog AUOgs >IT] BU) UT Z2[qQR) 94) UT {eS IYSU 
MOA Uy {Jes Yay INO UT {08 0} WI JURA NOA OP B19 AA “910A AU 
0} US)SI'] ‘UMOUY-]JOM SJ] “WsmMbo]LQUsA payed s.j1 pue ‘Teimeu 
Apooyiod s.37 “Aqjoq AW WIM 3uryye) Wy “so10A Aw seoy nod 
yah pue ‘pasojo st ‘yynow Au Joy sossed yey ‘ynow APY “SUT 
-AOW jOU d1.Aoyy, yore Ady} se yons ‘sdy Aur 90s nox ‘ap 
eB ysnf—opyy e ysew Aut asies [[,J,, ‘pres oy ,,“YOo'y,, 
‘usInboyLyUcA sty SuNneNsuOWSp UResOq YLIA 
‘yno ynd usaq peY IYSIT OU} JI oSed ye DOU 
u90q DALY P[NOM pUTU JOY Ng “WSI] Jo sze[q JWSOTFIUseU yey) UT 
SUIPUR]S ‘[TEM JY} JO SpIS JOyJO OY} UO [JOM puUP SATTe SN Ud_S peYy 
YS UsUIOU ay) Joy ‘AJOTXUL JOY POWUTd SAvY JSNUW SUT) 9UO 
‘JI JOJ UOSPAI B 9q 0} PRY SIdY) Jey) poo}sJopun 
oys ‘MOPUIM oI] 94} UT poreodde A[Uappns pey jeu) ISI] oy) 
ynoge AjSnouTWO Os ye} Jo}SUOU 9Yy} SuLedY Joye JOT ,,“MOpUIM 
OP] OU} UT ISI] oy) Ino Ind “YL ‘osvo[g “MOPUTM IPT stp 
Ul YS] IY} NO yng,, ‘SOIOA Joy OUI Jnd pynod sys suo} ZuLO;duIT 
APUSAIOJ JSOUT ‘3S3}99MS 9} UT ‘SoUIT} [eJOAOS payeodol sys 
"sn jnq SuUIWJOU Jo SuTyUIy) seM oYs Isned0q }dUIDe YSsITOO] eB 
SEM JJ ‘SPIOM JO JUIIIO} & UT Joy 3uIZIJowIgns Aq Ioquieyd 91Nj10} 
oy) WO, UOHUSYHe s,oUNSIIYD YoAIp 0} 3uIAN sea (Gsmbo[LyUuoA 
JSOJVOIZ S P]JOM oY) SEM ATTeOI OYA) JO}SUOU 9U) Jey) PoZITeal | 
_ JUS] {dU SAdT[Oq },UOp NOX {Yysne, nox jJsmbo 
-[LUDA 3S9}8013 S_pjJOM OY} UI] “WismMbopyUSA 0} SOWIOd JI WOM 
‘g[duexa Joy ‘oul SyI] DUO OU S,aJOI) ‘o[qIsUasS O1,NOA JI OSVIIEUI 
Ul JoyIEsO} sn ulof [IM OYM ‘pOH aAOJoq HW IwoMsS | ‘OU Sy] 
QUO OU S,9y], jaw YM UNy savy p.nod jng ° * * ‘SuIAes UW] 
yeuM MOUY 1,UOp | ‘YC jpsemsoye JoyjO yoes aJope pue ‘poLlew 
a1, Ady) BOJOQ JayJO Yoea SAO] },uUOp sojdnoo SunoA Auepy *AN 
0} SuryIM o1,Aoy} uoyM ‘0} JUeM Ady) USYM ZurjAue 0} posn 303 
ued a[doog jalowAue our yd0for },u0M NOA pue ‘}I puTyog s.JeyM 
yosJoJ nod pue yW ye BUTyOO, purw },uOp NnoA MOU ‘yI pUTYySq 
SEM JeUM MOUY NOA asnedsoq yseu AU ye YOO] },Up[nod noA 


XNOJI] U04jSVS) 9€Z 


‘gjsunf ueouyy ue Jo wesy 
oY} UT ABppiul Jo SOUD]IS PLO} oy} INq sn puNore alow ZurmjoU 
‘SUIOU seM JOY) ‘Jey I9Py “NYS powweE[s Joop e Jo pue 
‘AMY POSSVIP SUING PUL IOOTJ 9t} 0} SuTTTey Apog w Jo ‘a[33nys 
pide e jo spunos owed usyy, “sJo}YySne] sty ATUO peoy cary 
JSNU J[OSUITY Jo}SUOT OY} pUe ‘JaIYsNe] S.Jo}suOW oy) AfUO presy 
OM INg ‘WY UleNsSel JOU pnod | ‘ueWIpRUT eB O¥T] STEM oy) UO 
popunod pue poynoys fnory ‘sonvanue s,cuNsYyD yno poumorp 
W yey [NJIomod os sem JoVYSNe] s][QLLIO} s.Jo}suOUI oy) puy 

«<G0SUOZ) 9Y} Ul JSOIOJ B S,}1 IVY} 99S NOA } UpPIG,, 

co |’ WMO SOUL ZURow NoA op yey AM,,, 
<, JOOP }xou 

jSaIOJ oy) JO asnedaq $,31 :suljep AU ‘OUNSTIYD ‘NOA ]]>} I],],, 
. HOY SUTIN St [fem oy, jI0Y SI [eM UL, ESTP 

S.7eyM,, :Alorxue YM suidses ‘oo10A Ss ,oUNSTIYD ulese puy 
c¢ MQeIeoqun 

SUTUIODE SI JVOY SY),, ‘SOIOA S,ylIq poder ,.‘saX ‘yO,, 
< GOOY UT OY $3 YU) Nod },U0q j;yW_ ‘dois ‘s010a 

InoA YIM sul SUL) o1.nNOX [YU jYWY,, :o10A s,ounsuyD 

:pousddey yey st oJoy JOJ ‘oJ0W SuTWJOU Jeoy pynods aM UOOS 
"[[e@M a} JO opis JoyJO sy) 0} youq deoy Apeore pey so10A 
$ qq ‘oydss ue Jo sd10A SUIPUNOsSeI OY) UL) SAISNIS DOU pue 
JayIMs “nq “WUTY ye YsnI 0} YSnoy} se SACU B opEUT oA jSN 0} BUDE) 
“aJoy} SBM YU “sn usemjog ‘sn punole uel I ‘syjeM ay) YsnomM) 
pus ‘MOPUTM SIQISIAUL OI] Oy? YSnoI) ul cured yy jaoyMAIOA 

‘AIOYMAIDAD SBM SOIOA PISIND S,JSINbO[INUSA o[qepMUOJ su], 
YB “Ye “YY ,jJoqureyo oinjio} oy} O7UT- 
JopueM OYM pues ‘UMO IIOy} Jo asoU [eal B ‘asou Be dARY 0} YSNoUS 
AYOn] ae OYM aso} 0) 90\, ‘Aes | {ABS | Op Jey puy jJoquieyp. 
91N}0} dy} JO JOOP ay} pulysq S.J ‘UaST] ‘SurJep Aur ‘ounstyD 
‘USSIT {SI0A SY SI aloym ‘ye “ye ‘yy jo}sad ‘mou puy 
<itoyopueys oy} UMOp SUI [[,dY4s ‘34yS3TU0) BurZuts says Kem 
ou], ‘SAes }I pue ‘xoq S.JsOYys oy) UI eyo & UT S.J jo}Sald ‘mou 
PUY .. .i%VOIO—Apopour sy YM ULETE—jyeoIo—noywm 995 
I,, ‘Suis | pue peoy, “Il WJ, ‘shes 3 {Aes Wt soop yey [JEON 
[eisAIo ‘uaplos s,eyopIeD ul deep ‘yeomp} s,eyopIeD Ul s.1] joIsald 


LEC VdaddO FHL dO WOLNVHd SHL 


BEC 


SUINIP BSoU], “SIOUIOD 9) UI SWTUIP oY} JO UONRIOI SHeWIOMNE 3) 
JO SUBOUI AG SOUDS SAISSOIONS JOJO OA} OJUT POULOJSUBD) Bd1M} 
SEM POUTe}GO SNY} SUdDS 94} MOY 99S TIM OA “JOQUIVYD sINJIO} 
OY} Ul POUIJUOD WIDIA OY} JO SYORNL oy) [[e pueIsIpIM 0} YSnouS 
SUO]S 9q 0} pey i osnedeg ZUOI Jo apeul W sem AYA, “SOAROT 
poured pey yey) 9a UOM oyay] Apoojsod & WJIM sIOWIOS oy) UT 
SUSISOp [eINJOo}TYOIe oy} poosetdol oP] “JOquIeYD oINj7I0) B OJUT UOT) 
-USAUI SITY powojsuey Usy) pey oy puke UOISNI|I YSIppyS e Yyons 
JO pall) UOOS peYy eURINS BIT SUP Inq ‘, ,s[dura) s]quiowMNuUUT UR, , 
QUINN P[NOd jey) WOO! & OpeU ISNJ pey WU ‘vueyns opp] 
au} osnure Oo] ‘Ajayujopur porjdnnur yoes ‘sulool feuosexoy XIs 
[IM poyuousne sem UIOOI [eal oY} ‘SIOMITU sy) JO yoyo ayy Aq 
‘JOJ ‘SUUIN[OD ssopUNOd YIM sovTed B psonpold ATJUE}sUT STU) pue 
SIOUIOD JY} UT pooeyd sem ‘o[durexo Joy ‘UUNIOS B se YONs ‘USISSp 
DANeIONNp Y “URIOpUsZe|] JO sINOP] AsOY 9Y} JO SUIT) aU} Je ‘saXo 
AUI aIojaq pury yey) JO WOOT IsI oy} JING 9H “YU 0} AjoMUS 
sSuojeq UONUDAUT Oy) Ng ,,"SUOISNITI Jo soovyed,, Jo , sosviTw 
Jo sasnoy,, poyyeo pue ABM SUIes oY) UT OpeUl SWIOOI U90q SARY 
Q9y} ‘SUONIQIYXS ye ATqujOU ‘USY} SOUTG “SIOLITW YIM paJoAod 
Ajaya[duroo alam sTTem s}t pue yeuosexoy Ape[ndal sem SaATosmno 
punoj | pue [noey YoryM UI WoOI sy) ‘pres Apeouye AAVH I SV 


(AUOLS S.NVISUAg FHL JO NOLLVNANILNOD) 


wtl19S OF 
sjazieg Auy js[elieg jsjerieg,, 


SC 


“SWIOOI YONS 99S 0} 91GB U99q Sey SUOAIOAS Udy ‘skepemou 
Aressaoouun aq prnom Aoy) yng ‘Aj[Npasoul ysurese suonnesaid Aueur Os yoo) 
oy ‘SUNUM SBM UBISIog OY) USA OUT oy} 18 ‘JeY} O[QUpUE)sIOpUN SI I], 


Aq ssot payoenje Appersodso sem uonuaye Aut AT[eUuL] ‘WOO 1xou 
oy) Ul s0ujd Surye) sem yeYA 0} SN Jo WYO JOJ pousjst] | Os ‘ow 
IsLIdMs JOU PIP ISoJOJ 9Y} JO souRIvodde oy} ‘pres savy [ SY 
jUdISI] 0} JOSIOJ USAD OY JUSWIOW B JO. *AyTeOI 
0} SuTUINeI ul AYNOWIp Sulaey oJom pue pouoyeme jsnf pey 
oY JI Se poyxUl[q soAd SITY pUe ‘UOISIA YSHeUYsIU & ABME DALIP 0}! 
Yysnoy) se peoyosoy sty JOAO spuvy sty possed oF ‘uOTeUIO}sUOD 
INpYysuy oT wy pesunjd ‘suonosanp je ur AjoyuIsUI pusjxo 
0} pallises soyouvIg pue SYUNN ssapUuNod ssoyM ‘Jsaloy aj;qQen 
-ouodult yey) Jo souvseodde ayy, ‘popunojquinp Apioyn sem jnory 
*‘poyeUruN]]E sured0q SN PUNOIe solo} OY} pue SUTTIOD oy) Dy AA 
‘IE YO] [ SYM SANeIIEU AU OUINSAI MOU [IM | 
‘OUIT} B JOJ POUIIOUOS SseM UId)SAS [Bo] YOUdI,] ou) 
YOM YIM SOUdLIOdX9 SIQLLIO) & JO ISINOD oY) UI aU pue AUSeYD 
op [Nowy JUNOoSIA 0} pouscddey yeym Apoexd [[O} 0} SI sour] 
gsoy} SUNLIM ul osodimd Aut ‘joojJo Aue urleyqo 0} Bulky JOU we 
[ Inq ‘astidins Jo 3aqJjJa YsTfoo} & pouTe}qo Savy pfnom | ,,‘uNs 
Aepptu Suize[q e JopuN ysaJoj [eLoyenba ue ur saAjasIno punoy 
OM ‘Iel[IO & OJUT UMOP OUOS SuTARH,, ‘udITIM Ayduuts pey | JI 
*¢, SJOOJ JOJ SN soye} UCU ye], JO ,,“SUIAT 
SI URW VY], JO , ‘pew suos sey uew yeul,, ‘SuiAes ut paryysnl 
[993 JO wntLqInbs [eo jUuasold Au UO Qnop js¥d ued sUO 
OU Jey} Os ‘uns Aepprw 3uIze[q & JopuN jsolOJ [eLIoyenbo ue jo 
UOISNT][ TeInjeurodns oy} poonpold ‘soyouesq poyured Moy & WIM 
“yeY] UONUSAUL [eINjeU ye} JO s[reyop o1yLOods oy} UOAIS oARY J 
"TTIM Je ‘WOOL OU) UT Ie 9u} 
JO alojoroy} pue ‘sTpeM oY} JO sInjeIoduls} oy} asearOUI 0} aTqISsod 
Vi opeul “payer useq SOUIS sey YOM ‘SuNesy oLNOTO Jo 
wiajshs SNOTUSSUI UY ‘SnOUTUIN] sem SuTTI90 ay] “oINTUINT ON 
‘popuey-Ajduis pue yoojareq WOO! oy} OJUI UMOI) 
SEM OYM YOJoIM JOOd ay) JO a8vI Dy) WOI Ieoy 0} SurJOU pey 
AO) Jey) Yor) Os sso WWW ATO palaaod alam Aay) ‘uUsIsop 
SATBIODOP ULISISaI ATYSNOIOY) 9Y}) WoIf opise ‘asneseq proyjoo; 
Jo did OU WIOIA oy) OAS JoquUIeYD aIN{IO} oy JO sTTeEM SUL, 
"sIOq}O YIM aouonbes 
Ul poseadde yelp UsISep SANeIODEp & 9J0q Woy} JO Yous pue ‘sIOI 
-ITU oy) JO sopsue oy} OJUT poyTy Ady) ‘spIIy) OUT PaprAIP aIom 


6€C VdaadO SHI dO WOLNVHd FHL 


auop pey uoNeyse sty Jo oyds ul preayJoAO pey sy Jey} JoysUOU 
3) puke SUTISTIIYD U99MI0Q UOTVSIOAUOD Jo SdvIOS SY], “SOLID 9}e] 
-NoIeul ZuLSyN ‘ueUIpeU Be OyI] SuLesT[D AJOSNI|[I OU} UT puNnore 
Suryjem Apealye sem oyM ‘[noey Wyed o} pey | Is ng 
‘ABpop yNoyM JOOP 3y) 
uado 0} AWM & JOT SUTAOOT UIZ9qQ 0} popldap | ‘JUSULIO} INO WIA 
OdJI9JUT JOU PfNOM sys yey} OS WoOOIpaq oddijIYg-sIno’] sy} Jo 
yNO Joy Seip JoysuOW 9) pIesy pey J USYA ‘opts s,ouNSsUYD woy 
sn Joy odoy Aue Josuo] OU sem oIOy) oINs 9yINb sem | USY A 
“yse} ATeUIPIO OU SBM YOIYM ‘SeA\ JI OJOYM SUTMOUY UdAS 
yNoyIM 3 Usdo 0} AN 0} pey SIOJoIOy) 9AA ‘SN 0} SIQISTAUT ATOINT 
-OSQE SEM jI ‘OPIS S,dUTSLIYD UO JOOp AreUIpPIO Ue Sem II OTTUM 
Ing ‘aJoM oUTsSUYD pue YU sey wWooIpeq oddiptyg-sinoy] 
94} OUT pousdo jeYy) JOOp oy) :3no ABM oUO ATUO sem BION, 
"SIOP[NOYS S$ ,JOY}O 
oy) UO puR}s 0} SN JO 9UO JOJ poos ou sUOp sAvY PfNOM IT pue ‘sn 
0} SSOTIsN seM 3aJ} UOT sy) JO yOuvIg oy) ‘osessed oy) YOar sn 
djay 0} omnjruiny ou sem aioy) ‘YZIoy & yeoIZ 00} WoI JoquIeYyo 
91njJ0} 94) oJUI poddoIp pey 2A, ‘OS SUIOp Jo suvowW ou pry 
] :o[duiIs sem uosedl oy], ‘oSessed SU} POSO[d Jey} SUO}S OpPISUT 
OY} SUTAOU! JO WOO] pasiNd yey} OJUT sn JYsNoIg pey yeu) odessed 
ay) jo Aem Aq yorq 3ulos jo yysnoy je dn oars | ‘IsMy 
"MOU SBM JI ‘}T OSN 0} UIT) B U99q PRY dI9Y) JOA JI 
pue , ‘SyoW,, SLY JO Jsoul Jo ospo,mouy Ysnosoy) & peY | ‘op 
0} s[qe useq pey yonbng ydasog uey) A[[NJosn oJoW Woy} puods 
Pynoo | yey) pue Yo] SIMOY MOJ & peY [[NS 9M Jey) MoU | osNed0q 
‘OS YUIY) JOU pIp | ZoUOp pkey oY se SIP 0} SUIOS OM DIOM 
jaray) useq pey yonbng ydesor ‘sox 
“UOTY IM ATOAISTNAUOS SUTAOTY uoW posuey 
Jo apnyninul e ZuIses JO UOTJE[OSUOD [eUIy oY) peYy pey oy ‘dIp oO} 
ynoge sem oy se ‘yey ABM & YONS Ul posed sem JUSULIO} SI popus 
pey oy YOY UO YouRIg 90x} oy} puYy ‘soLInful WYSITs Iu) Jo ods 
Ul BIZSNys YIP sIy Joos 0} ponuNUOS YOM ‘SIOLITU dsOy) 
poyoeye Ajsnouny pue , uoIsni[! A[peop,, Jey) OJUT UsT[ey Avy 
Jsnu ‘UBIOpUSZEP JO SINOPY{ ASOY dy} JO sJoUOsLId pouWspuOos 
ay) ueY) popuey-AjdwIa pue iOOJOIeq sso] ‘YD}OIM Jood sUWIOS 
"JI OJUT OUTVD OM AIOJOG posn udeq pey JoquIRYS aINjZJO} oy) 
yey) IQnop puoXaq oUt 0} PoAold SI], “WOYy) UT SyoeIO podeys-3Eys 
SFU 0} B1qQe US0q peYy UOOUWOS ‘AyIPITOS JOU} oyIdsop ‘saou[d Ut 
Ppoyoyesos pue Udyog BI9M SIO ssoU_], "31 poonpold yey) SIOLITU 
au) Aq uey) ‘pasndsoj jou sea pur AW YoIyM UO ‘990s SAIOJ SY) 


XNOAIT U0jSUS) OFZ 


‘uonuaye [enbo UjIM JOOTy oy) oUTUIeXs 
voy} ‘Ajaynjoser pue AyoynurM sjoued Jou xIS [je ouTUexe 
0} peproop pey J ‘edoy Ajuo Au sem yf nq ‘stsoyjodAy e Ajoiour 
SBM Je) ‘Yeo UMO sTy puodsq Suds oy) pooeyd savy jou IsnNUI 
oY IYSnoy | pue oUTUT se oUTYS OY) INOGE SEM IYSIOY SYA “YoRal 
Pinos spuey Au se ysIy se yoy | “Suryoreos yday | ‘poseoral 
9q 0} poposu jey) Sutids oy) sem YIM puUTYyoq ‘JOU oy UO 
jods pozis-eod & sem yuIod yeom oY} Sosed oulOs UT ‘sIoopden pue 
SIOOp SuUNOAId Jo wWsSAs SY YM SoULPIOe UI WIN} JOOP su} 
OFLU 0} JopJo ul ssid 0) YOTYM UO jUIOd yeom ve pul 0) Burn 
‘joued JOLMIU & IOAO [Je SUI[TIeJ ULSoq | ‘JsalOy ay) SuINeSIO04 

‘pres pey 
] SuMAIOAS Jo oytds UI WIY UO Sue seM oINIIO) OUT, “SUIAT sem 
oY s1OYM WO , MIA JUIOIIUSEU,, B pey oy Jey) poppe sy puy 
‘Op 0} JoN0q ZurOoU peYy oY dOUTS ‘ysoI0J oy) JO JOOP ou punoj 
I 19 Wem prnom oy pres pue ‘soaz) ol) Jopun SuNsor alam oy 
Ji se “IOO]J¥ 9Y) UO UMOP Ax] OH “NOY Ue UTYIM JOOP oy) Jo JOINS 
OU} JOAOOSIP pnom J ‘surlded onueIy pue synoys sty WIM ou 
SUTOBIISIP NOYM 4B OU JO] OY JI Jey) WY postutold | puy 
«.{4f JOJ YOOT $,Jo] OS ‘Joop 
S}I PUI} 9M USYM WOO sy) JO INO 303 [],9M “JJESINOA Sul 
dooy }snul nod yeyM S,Jey) :WOOI [[eUIs B ‘WIOOI & UT 21,.0M,, 
‘a[dood 
JURIOUST ATVUIPIO OYT] II 0} UITJDTA [Tey JOU Pynoo om yey) WATY pio} 
J pue ‘sn podojoaus yey) AoSeu snourumy oy) ‘sondo Jo smey ou} 
0} SUIpIOooR ‘pourefdxe | ‘swNIp sy) UO sayoueIg oY) pue ‘sen 
WOM OY} “SIOLIMU Sy} YONO} WIIY pey | ‘[noey Jood yIM Zuruoseal 
Ajuryes Aq a[qissod se yonur se jf yequiod 0} pol | “3 10} pared 
-oidun purur & UO 3ajJo SI oAeY 0} SuTuUTZOq seM 9INII0} OU], 
"JSOJOJ STY SUTeSe ZUTTIEI pue YJeop oY} 03 Jonp B 0} SISNJA JO 
Jasuy oY} SuIsuoTeyo ‘sZun] sty Jo do} oy ye Jo}suOTZ Om) 0} INO 
Teo pue “joysid sty Yysipuesq ,.joUNsIYD jouNsEYD,, ‘noys ua 
PInoM oF “ISaJOZ Aros]! oy} Jo UONSoTJa1 oy) ysuUTeSe peoyoIO] 
sty Surdueq ‘sdoys Moy e Joye ‘Uoy) pue ‘UOZEIOY oy) 0} WY 
O72} P[NOM Jey} sue] & I9jJUd 0} SUIOS sem oy SurquIy) ‘ooeds JuQ} 
“STXOUOU & PJEMO} SUIYSNI SaUITOWIOS ‘YyWJOF puke yorq A[ssopwTe 
posed off ‘UoNNeD [Te pouopuege pey oy ‘3uIZm Aw odsoq 
"JYSNOIMIDAO jIQ B SUI 
-W059q SBM OY Jey} pue}sJopuN ATISeO [JIM NOX ‘safdurs) sty UMOp 
Weas JMS SYVU 0} SUTUUTZEq sem Jey} JeOy OY} pue ySaIO] 
o1SeU oy} ppe nod yey) 0} JI ‘UONOBNSIp 0} WY SAP oO} YoNu 


The VaddO FHL tO WOLNVHd SHL 


: " ‘O3U0Z oy) 
UI JSOIOJ @ ‘pedyJOAO ATOOIIP UNS oy) YIM ySaloy [eLOyenbe ue ul 
OIOM OM DOUTS ‘IOAOMOY ‘TeINJeU ATUO seM JEU] jopeys ou saves 
Aou) Ing “peoy Aur saoge Aj[nyooes3 poamnd Jo ow Jo yuo ut dn 
1YZIeNs aso1 yey) soyouesq [NyNesq ‘soyouesq A[UO puNo} | ‘uIeA 
UI }I JOJ poyorees | Ing “SuLids oy) pUuly JOU PIP |] JI JO “onosar 
INO 0} GUIeD SUO OU JI SN JOF a10}s UT Ae] JeyAA MOUY | “SuryAue 
ynouIIM ‘apmnd e Jo sseduod eB Jno ‘no ABM OU YM “jSoIOJ 
OY) Ul SOT OIOM SAA “WIOOI }X9U dU} UI soUDTIS sues OY) [TNS 
Sem SIOU], “Surpjou ATonjosqe ‘SurpJoU puNo} | asneseq “YSHOASJ 
SuIMI0d9q SEM 00} [ “Yoreos Sutdoss AuI pounsal | ‘oul JO} SV 
‘JSQIOJ [BSI B UT SEA OY Jey) POOUTAUOD A[SUISBaIOUT OUTEDAq 
oy pue ‘SIO WIM Sulfeop sem oY Jey) JOSIOJ UNTY spew WH 
SIOUI ou} ‘MOIS HW JosuUONS oy) pue ‘IosuONS Mod Iedsop sty 
‘POUBOU OY , ,jJSOOJ STU} JO JNO 3983 JOADU [],9M,, 
“MO]Q JoyjJOUR UITY SARS STIYT, “IOAO JIS O} peY | Jey) 
pozijeor [noey pue Aewistp Au Surmoys djsy jou pynod | ‘wopuel 
ye Joued B asooyo 0} Savy P[NOM | ‘[aued auUTES SY} 0} Yd"q BUIOD 
pey | ons oq JOU pfnod J ‘ysos0j Arosn]]I oy) JO afsue} Sursnyuos 
oy) UI ‘Jey INsor ou)? UPIM ‘sdojs JeIoAss BuTye} JO oyeISTW 
ou) apeul pey | Suryye? sea | [TY Inq “JWoWaseINooUS JO SpIOM 
MO} B WY SUIATS Joye youed Aur 0} yorq pousn) J “pip sy se qeap 
Zundoooe Jo} suoseol oJeJodsop oules oY} dAvY JOU PIP J SOUT 
“JuTey 
wy ope Ajreou yey) IIe j0Y JO yealq doop eB yoo) oy puy 
_jSt JO [Je JoF 9q uv 
ssveul womnbal s yg jJoy JOJ polp sary |[][,9M" yea] ye “JOY OARS 
pue aioy Jo yNO 303 },ULd OM JT :IYSIU MOLIOUWO) YOO[D,O UdSAITS 
[[} OUTISIIUD OARS IOJSUOU 9Y} Jey} SI OUI SaTOSUOD IVY AA,, 
‘poppe oy Ing “JosUOT o[TYM eB oyINb Joy oINjI10) ay} ysuTEsE 
NO PjOYy pjnos uosver sty Jey) podoy | pue ysoJOJ oy) JNOGe p1OM 
B ples }0U pey OH “3eU) Sy] ype? Wry Jvoy 0} Ados jou SEA | 
_ jat04 Poyseor Oq ][,OM ‘Iasuo] YonuT 
aye) nok jy {uoos Surids Inok puly nod [ITAA [YVOJ puwe Yseq yeoy 
[UIOJUT DY} JOO[JoI SIOMITUI BsOUY [[V,, “Pres oy , ij SUlJNS UL,],, 
‘Ihoey Wo UOHeWE[OXS Ue SULIWOY UO pUNore pou | “I 
DALY P[NOAM Yon] peq se ‘uoyM ‘spoued semp IM poystury Apeosye 
pey pue ‘moy ue Jey Joy Aem yey) ul suTyIOM Us0q pry J 
"ysosoy Alor yey) UT SuTYyeQ AT[eJoy] BOM 
OM PUL DIOUI pue AOU! OU SuTSOFe sem yBaY oY) osNVdoq SINUTU 
g[Surs & a}sem 0} JOU poly J sjoued ayy yos AT[NForWd J STM 


XNOAF] U04SS) ZPC 


ou} JB SOA[ISIMO puNoJ ATUSppns 9M ssnevo0q ‘WYySIU oy) SuLIMp 
SouBISIP poos & paJaA0d APUSPIAD pey OMA ‘UMEP Je SUTUIOUT 
IXOU MBS J SB “JOLT! B OYOIG OY ‘UOT SY) IY OY YUTY) 30U Op | Inq 
‘JOYS [NORY “SJOJoq UBY} Jopnoy USAS ‘uTeSe owed SuLIeOI OU], 
«J OOYS [LJ 
‘urese sIeol oy JT °° * “J@xOMY) yey) ur ‘sean ou) YSnonp ‘ory ] 
~uTy ses nod },u0q,, “Apjos pres jnowey ,,‘rey 30U s,9q],, 
‘Suluayeap SOW SEM PUNOS SY]. 
"ABME sooed May B ATUO WOY Jeol UOT] & preay aM JdU0 Je [TV 
‘Sutids AU Joy Suryooy uo yuaM | TTY ‘dures 
imo wo ABMe Jopuem 0} JOU puke arly 0} Apear sfoystd ino daoy 07 
[Nowy Pfo} | ‘UoouT 94} Jo MOS snIq SY) UT JayOY USAS MOU SEM FI 
‘ATeUOS oY} UO ‘papey 3ySI[AEep se popisqns jou pey 3eoy ouL 
‘soyoueig Jo saseult ATUO Surses sem 
J 38Y) OWT) Ul SUI popu pey Jey) pue ‘JouTU e oyUT poduing 
pey 00} | Inq ‘uJoJUe] popeys AUT YIM WoU) ISI] 0} Zurpusjut 
‘soyouRlg SUIOS jJO yealq 0} pol pue B3uuds oy) Joy yoreas 
Aur padnuayur pey [ syuowour mez & JO “speuTUe snors0sa} 
JJO prem 0} ony & Suryeu Jo AVM ou sey suo ‘sn ay] ‘uOyM 
Ayfetsedso ‘snorosuep sAemye st ysoloj [ewoyenbo ue ur 1y3IN 
‘JYUSTIM) OU sour 
“Je ym ‘AlUoppns ‘spueyl yesidon ut syjey ssouysep se ‘Apyornb 
Ato pouaddey pey 3 ‘sn dopeaua 0} Suruurgeq Apeare arom 
yysIu jo sapeys ‘poysvoidde Zurusas se snoroSuep SuTUI0N0q 
SBM 3SOI0J OY} UI AB}s INO adUTS ATfeIdedso ‘JOOP 2IQISIAUT ou) 
jo Sutids oy} Joy Suryoseos pue Suryosess uo yuaM J ‘IOO] ou) UO 
sumenbs mou ‘ng “Surumq sem yeory) AP 00} ASTI) seM | 
. iAISI OS WJ ‘YO,, ‘A[SnOLTep pres sy ATfeuLy 
« ' * NOA Wo AeMe “ysaJoy ou} UT 
SIP 0) Suro3 w1,] jaw uo Ayd oye} ‘ouNsLyD jwWe | paysneyxe Mou 
908 uBd NOX jdojs ‘ounsLIYyD {poSeSue om j,uaTW Zour sAoT Nos 
1,U0q {ow wor Aeme unt nod op AU joUNSHYD jounsuys,, 
‘saXo AUI 0} S3e9} JYSNOIQ 
Je} 9U0) SuTYDIeSIq & UT JOY 0} INO []ed pnom sy pue ‘soyoueIG 
oy) Yysnonp suiddys Jo ‘yuny sen & puryaq Joy MES oy IUSNOYY 
ol Udy} pue MON “OUNSLYD Jo yoreas ut ‘Sutddoys ynoyyM JsoIoj 
yey} Ul syysIu pue shep sam) Suryyem useq pey sy poUrTE[D of] 
<< 0U08,, ATa}o[duIo. sem sty yng ‘BuNsisal [Ns sem purus AP 
‘Jeoy OY} WIZ sn pojda}01d Asy} yey) SoWIMEUIOS 
pue Joyoy sn apeu Ay) ey) SauIMOWOS BuUTTSaJ ‘UO youq uO) 
ynd pue sjeo. Mo jjo usye) pey | pue jnoey ‘sou yelsAes 


€hC VaadO AHL JO WOLNVHd FHL 


joSesU & yng BUIMJON,, ‘MOREY oO} ples | , jose e SJ],, 
‘901) UOIT OY} WO JJOSuITY Suey :op 0} WY Joy SuTY) UO ATUO 
sem ol0u) ‘JOLT e ysurese dn sures oy ‘Jovem SuNoodxa Joye 
‘TT yey) pue ‘poyooTJar SEM JOT) UOI 9Y} YOY UT JoyeM ou) “JoyeM 
pojoadxo Jaquieyo 91Nj10} OY} JO UINIA B JI Jey} MOUY J sNBd0q 
‘JoyeM JOodxe JOU pue UOseaT AUT 0} SUT[D 0} poly [ ‘9U0 OU “I 
JSISOI 0} B[qe U9dq JOAO peY UO ON “T]e JO ISIOM oY} sem HT SAlo}E 
-IPOuIWUT 31 poztusooel J ‘aud9S oBeITU oy) Sem J [YY ©” * 90d) 
UOI oY} Poyoojjor yey) JoyeA\ ‘JOLT & SB Jeo] se JoyeM “Ia}eM 
WIM STIsvO Ue ‘SISBO 94} 0} ABM DABS YOSEp oY} SIOY) INO “so 
‘SIseO OY) PaIoaoosip ysnf pey dE “UOZLIOY oy} 0} jUIOd pue 
MOQ[O GUO UO J[ISUNTY oSTeI [nORY MES | ATTEULY “IsITUp A[Tetoodsa 
‘\sI1U} pue ‘IosuNY ‘Jeoy JO sIP 0} SuruuTseq ATTeENjoe BOM SAA 
GEPNy[OS s[qLt9} 
yey} UI SN JO SWI090q 0} SuIOS sem JeYAA “Wosop AuO}s ot} Jo AjIS 
-USWIUI areq oY) pue ddUdTIS Oy) DIOM SN puNoe [Ty “Jomsue ou 
SBM dIdY} ING ‘WJesap dy} ssoIOR pjnod | se A[pNoy se poynoys J 
«AI iAWH,, 
‘wy payyeo | “Joquueyo 
oInjI0} oy) UI sem OYM Mouy AjaIns oy Mou Aq puy ‘osLidins 
kq wry Surye) jo vopt oy dn oars 0} pey A[SnolAqo om OJ 
“UITY WIM ayeNoFou 0) AT 0} Opldop OUI SpeUI SSdIASpP snojussuT 
STY WIM WOOT yXoU Oy) UI oq WSU YU yey) WSNoW oy], 
‘A[J_ 9839S} oy) JO SUIZZNq 9Y) USAS 
Jo ‘predooy ay) JO UOT] ay} JO 9dI0A ay} sJeNTWUT APOoJIad pynos oy 
‘poqqni oy Aem oy) UO SuIpusdop ‘pure ‘dAC]s poyeod-UIsOI B IM 
ZuLs yey) qni 0} ATUO pey YU “wWoyog 0} do} Woy uIP oy) 
ySnor) possed yey) pUTy sues oY) JO ZULNS JOyJOUL 0} 19}U99 S}I Je 
poyoeye Suis yndyeo poysjons ApYysy & sem UTYS JeY} JOAC “UPS 
Aoyuop jo a001d yne} e Aq pazoAod JoyJO oy) pue uedo pus suo 
WIM Wp MoUeU ‘ZUCT B JO SUB Aq UOT] B JO VOI Ol} PayeHUl 
Yq Jey) noey 0} pourefdxoa | ‘Wosop oy) Surssos9 sJOJoq SuNsal 
OI9M OM ITY ‘poonpoid ATIsvo SOM SJDajJo SSOU], “SOT 9S}9S} 
jo Surzznq oy) souMoulos pue ‘predos] oy) ATjensn sem sI9u3 
‘uoT] oY) Jay “WYsU oy) SuLMp sJojUNOOUS JURSea[duN OUI 
Aue pey jou pey om yey) posudms Apeais sem |[ Wy pio} | 
‘pUIf JOU p[nod | yey) ssuLids 
Jo} SuTyOO] Jo pay ‘[noey apisoq umop Ae] pue dn aaes | “Wosop 
B yorar 0} ATUO JsalOJ OY} JO JNO SUTUIOD ‘9;QNOH sy) YOM 40U 
Ayjeol SW J] “SOUO}S pUe PULS JO JaSep 3sBA B ‘YoSApP B JO a8po 


XNOdI] UO}SDE) az 


‘MOU J ISN SSOYM [IeU popeoy-yovyq & paloAodsIp 
ysnf pey [ ‘JOO[J Sy) UT 9AC0IS B UT ‘ossey qefung 2u) opIseg 
‘Ud9S peY | JeYM 0} SooUY pue spuey AU! UO poymeID 
J Uoy) ‘UTY Wo Aeme [ojsId oy} yoo) pue ule sy poqqeld |] 
S[SSUaTY [PY PROS ay 
aJojoq poddojs sem , .‘aunsuyD ‘aXq-poony,, ‘suLmunmur Apeorye 
SEM OYM ‘[NoRY Jey) APUS[OIA Os jIe}S OU OpeUT yey) ZUTyVOULOS 
Mes J Osse] qelung OU} Je Poyoo] | se jng jouw Joy 3unTeEM sem 
IJ “OUdOS PITY} yey) UT porkoddeol pey 902) UOT oy) AYM MOUY | 
"yooy Aur ye osse, qefung oy} 38 poyoo] | “‘pesy sty jo 
Opis oY} Je HW powre pue popeoy [[Ns sem yey) [oystd A[UO oy) Yoo} 
Jnoey ‘stedssp jo AID oszeoy B YIM JOOTJ oy) UO Poor oA\ 
jJOY sem 
I] ‘I Pip Os pue i poy] [nowy ‘JouTU oy poyowsr om UO 
‘ysnp 
se AIp oom sonsuo} Imo ynq ‘JoyeM JO [NJ alom seo pue sofa 
INQ “YUeQIOAL sy} ysUIese Suryserds Joye oy) PIeMO) po[MEIO 
OM SB NO SuIsULY SONSUO} INO WIM sn UdeS DALY P[NoYys nox 
‘urer AAvoY & Jo Joyed oy) oy] AoRxa punos 
B SBM JNSOI oy} puw ‘JoyJOUR 0) SUO WOIJ papunog pue suon 
-ONSGO 3} YIM paplffoo souojs sp] OU} ‘{[oJ Aou) sy ‘WISUST 
S}I Suoye [je spearayur ye pooeyd yeyow pue poom jo saoord yey 
Aq episut sy) UO pajonnsqo Ayjensed xoq MoueU AIDA pue Buoy 
AOA B SOUOIS BPI] YA POT[IF IE °00} JaJJo yey) poonpoid yg 
MOY MOUY [JOA “UONUSAUT [edI[OQeIP & seM I] “SuTUTeI JOU seM 
3] pue UTeI PBs OM :JUSUIO) O[QuIeOqUN JSOUI OY) OUTED UY], 
‘Joyeq I Is 0} YNOU! sy} JO Jno SoWOd on3u0} sy], ‘on3uo} 
OU} YM preoy SI yey} plom ev sty {yspjds plom ay) pueysiopun 
noX oq ‘suryseyds pue Sulmojy 3 precy oA, “II preoy osye om 
‘JoyeM JY} Mes ATUO JOU OM IO] ‘SUPTULIP aJaM J JI se uodo ynou 
AU pey 00} | puy “SuryULIp oJaM ay JI se Uodo seM YNOU! STE 
«MOEA jJNeM,, ‘SuIAes ‘Suoye Jjosumy pos3erp oy 
"P]JOM SY) IJOAO [[e popoaRT) pey oy :UI WTY dye} 0} 
SUIAY 9SN OU SEM DIOL, jISAOJ OY) SEM OS PUY jel sem JOsop 
oy) puy j[ear Jou sem ‘soaq) [NJNNeSG osOU} [Te SuoUTe ‘oJOy) IOAO 
ZUIMO]Z JoyeM OY} JEU} YUIY) 0} ‘pres oy ‘AzeIO JO pul{q Joye 
sem J ‘soseitw Jo sovjed Au pue ‘sloop 8unoaid Aur ‘ssuuds Aw 
“SyOLQ Jou Au YIM ‘auOTe UWITY Saka] 0} OUI po) ATLISue apy 
<j SIOLITU 
oy) YM YOR Joyjoue AyUO sj j[eal st JaJeM ou)? YUI) 1,u0g 


Gre VaddO FHL JO WOLNVHd dHL 


pue “Jouy om “[[NJ sem PW aINS oyu 0} OUO SuUISIBI Jyey Joy 
‘pasoyo Apysn je asam Aou) ing ‘podde} useq savy YSTU Woy) 
JO DUO JI 99S 0} SUTOOT ‘JoyJOUR J9}Je GUO WdY} POUTUTEXS 9A 
? ‘ayey ou) Aq osnoy oy} OJUT ALIed 0} JoIsea WOU} 
OYPUI 0} OZIS Jey) Ul Woy) USSOYyo peYy YY yey} pouinsse | pue 
sjaLieq [jews alam ASU, “SMO OY) UsaMjoq a10M 9M “SMor Tenba 
Om) ut dn pour ‘Woy Jo Joquinu eB oynb psopul oom SIOU], 
.jspoeq Aueul og jsfoueg [sor 
-Jeg,, ‘A[ssojomn poyeodor pue sodeys punol oy} pessozed [noey 
jo19y YULIP 0} Ayuayd sem osoy) ‘YY “oUIM poo’ 
Jo puoj AIOA sem OY MOUY | [Jovem ZuLULp sty oqAeur pue ‘ourM 
sty 3doy YU aoyM IeTJIO oy} UL APUAPIAD a1om 9M jSfoueg 
“WaY) UO UIOJURT AUT JO JYSI] oy) OUOYs | ‘sadeys punoy ‘sn 
punoze sodeys ysinsunsip pue ssouyzep oy} 0} Isn{pe 0} SuTUUTs9q 
Q19M Sok9 ING ‘SIIe}s 9y} JO WOO sy) 0) SUBD UOOS 9A 
‘Aeme Jey you A[qeqold sem oye] oy) puy 
“payoval pey OM [SAI] OY) Je JoyeM YIM poyeinjes }qQnop OU SBA 
YOTyM “JTOS}I YS ot} Jo SsaujOoS oy) Woy UY) IINq ATLTessoD0U 
pey Yq yy) UsjsAs UOTJe{USA OY) WIJ ssoq SUIOD sARY JSUT 
SSOU[OOS IY], jSSouUyep oy) pue sITeys By) B19M [OOS AT[N}Iapuom 
MOP ‘SsouyTep Jodoop oyUI ou YOO} ssvorTe}s SUIPUIM 3] 
"JSIIJ UMOP 
yuom | ‘uodo usJoJUR] popeys AU YAMA “SYM SJo}suOUI oy} JO 
Jayjoue paresy [ asnesoq wiry poddoys | ng ‘so sqeuTUIOge 
QSOY} JO sOBIQUID JURIPLI SU} WOIy advdso JsBO] Je P[NOd 3M “oJOU} 
UMOP J9}@M OU puNOJ aM JI UIA “9[OY oY) OVUT oBuNzd 0} Apeor 
SBM [NOY “Ie][9O OU} OJUT UMOP SUIPKo] asBdITe}S Yep eB “osedITE)S 
B :Joyjoue US) ‘oU0}s B Ifo} puw sMOpeYs 94) OFUT ULE Aut 4nd | 
++ yup 
0} JOWM “II UT JoyEM seM dIO) oqhey] {JOO[J 9Y) UT A[sNoLIa}sAUr 
pouedo jsnf pey Joop ssoym Je][IO yey) UT “ojoy yey) UI 9q 
PInoo yy AA “Joopdey 9Y} JOAO JOMO] PUL JOMOT] JUNQ 9M PUY 
"UL WT YURIP om “opeys [009 ot} UT SUTYS 
IMO WIAA ‘SuLds seajpo & oom I JI Se ssouyrep Jo arenbs Jey) JOAo 
pours] oA, ‘Suruado oy) WoT sn 0} sUTeD A[o}eIPOUTUIT Ite [OOD 
‘IOO[] 94) ul pauodo 
yey) Joopden ev nq ‘[jeM oy} UT pousdo yey} Joop eB OU Sem I UOT) 
puy °° * uoy) puy ‘amssoid Au 0} popjalA [feu popeoy-yor[q 
OU], ‘O[TUIs prog & YIM [NORY 0} pouINy pue [TeU oy) Ppoyono} | 
jspuey Ino Ul yIq Ind pue ‘sn saIj pue “IOOP 3U} uodo 
0} SuloS sem yey) Suds oyy jsutds sy} punoy pey | Ise IV 


XHOAFT U0jSV) OFC 


jJopmoduns sem spuevy s.[nory ur uses ysnf pey | UA, 

"SN 0} ISO] SBM PUL—INO JUOM pUE oy¥OIQ 3 eI) AUST 

“OIA OS sn Wo ABME WoUR, oy MoM AjaJeIpowUN pue Wot) 
JOAO pouvg] J “WJo}Ue, AUT 0} aso[o spueY [[NJ Om) sty ind oF 
« (FOJEM JOU SI,, “ThOBY Powo , {SM sjwyM,, 

‘raddo}s 

oy} Ino poLd | ‘yoyo yse] suo YM ‘pue WI Jopun spuey podseyo 
sry ynd [noey “JaLzeq oy} Surucdo Jo yse} oy) 0} Yorq JOM OM 

"S9SUSS INO JO UOTIPUOS peq ay) Aq popnyop useq pey om Jey} 
suisoddns 0} psonpel oJ9m OM “oJOW Surjou preoy om yng 
« OPISUT 83], [MOBY Pres ,.jOpmsur s7 j],, 
"JorTeq Sy} purYyaq Yoo] 0} yUoM pue dn poojs 94 

«(eq ou) apisu: Keme Sut 
-AOUI SBA JUBYS SY} JBOMS P[NOd J,, ‘poulrefoxe jnoey ..j4O,, 
"OUT STU} JajUrey ‘poumMsol jueYd oy], 
<< | SUTUBYS arom JoLeq BY) JI SB S,I],, ‘PIs oY ,.jPppo sjeyL.,, 

"yUBYS oy} pseoy 
osje pey ~nory ‘Joddojs oy) uo poziiqourun sem puey AW 
«61198 0} sjaueqg Auy jsjeueg jsjaueg,, 

“SHB JO S}9ONS OY} UT II pIeoy Udo 

pey J asnedeq [Jom MoUy ] wWIpAYyI ssoym ‘AME Jey WOI, sUIOD 
0} SuyUIses ‘JURY SNOUO}OUOUT Jo pUTy ev pJeoy | UOW Isnf¢ 

‘Joddojs ay) SulAourar 

moge jos J ‘oul UO pey J BUY op oy} Jo opelq oy WIM 


L¥C VaadO AHL JO WOLNVHd SHL 


8hC 


SUIMOTOJ OY} YOOTD,O Uaasfe Aq aplosp ISNU ays SUNSUY Pj} 
pey of ‘Yeo oy) poyxfeM JoAd OYA Jo}SUOUI SNOUTOY JOU! SY} JO 
SUOTRNSHI SNOJOWL oY} ISUdAL 0} SAIOS P[NOM J “JeaNar sty JO 
Ayymbuey op ur sydonseyed ay} Joy suoneredoid spel pey oH 
. “JOMIOY JO XCUIT[D B UT ppIOM oy 
WO] WX STY SALW 0} poyUeM OYM sUOSUOS Aq poulseun useq 
SARY JOU Pinos suNLIO [NAYsWy sow Y jeledO sie years oy} Jo 
o8eyseIm 94) Jopun poling ‘sox ,,poling pue peop SI QUOAIOAD 
‘ou SM JE {OU JO SOX,, :SpIOM s[qeuTUOge asoy) Aq JUeSUT 
pey oy yey pue ‘oUnSLIyD 0} pres pey YY weyM poojsiopun om 
MON ‘UOHeNIS IMO noge YN SUTAFIA} “[[NJ SY} MOUY oA\ PIP 
mou ATWO ‘aJOJEq SUI WOYS B SploNs Jo adJ9A 9Y} UO US9q PeY 
9M YSnoy) UsAq ‘ssaNsIp yuosoid pue Surozyns ysed mo }0310} 
Sn apeul yey) UONEZe Jo oes wv OJUT sn MaIy) ATOAOOSIP INO 
‘Ssoul[sn SNOTSUOU! 
ST UJIM UMBIPYVIA pey oY YIM 0} JeorjeI Ol) UT UMOp WTY JUNY 
0} owes gjdood punoiZeaoge jr ‘JjaswTY SuIpnpout ‘SuIyJAIOAD 
dn Mojg 0} pourmuajep sem oy pue Ie] punossepun ue JpOsuuTYy 
yInq pey oy ‘ssutoq URUINY IJayjO Wo JJO yd BUl[I0] [,.d0eJ 
uRUINY oY} JO sIOqUIOUI AUeUL,, IsUTEse syeoI) ONSeA STY YIM 3ut 
-JJN{q Us99q JOU pey 9H “s}ysnoy) Surfedde Au Jo syjdap jsoxJep 
oy} poyoval pey J ‘Jeyjoo Sy or UMop 3ulos NI ‘OS GNYV 


(AYOLS S.NVISUId FHL tO GN) 


jgaaddoyssely 
JY} 10 UOTdIOIS ay]. 


9C 


JeY} JOOTZ 9Y) ‘Joqureyd oINj10} 9y) JO JOO[J oy) UO poyMEID pue 
ioopden sy) ysnom) dn sures oA, “Je[[oo s.yLIq Ul se Joquieyo 
21NjJ0} SY} UI Yep se MOU SEM 7 3NG “Poeso[d Jou sem JOOpden 
oY} ey} PUNOZ OM sIIe}s oy) JO do} oY) poyowar om UOU A, 
“Joqurieyo 
QmnjI0} ay} Jo YS A[pesp oy} 0) yorq BuIos yuvow W JT DAS 
“ssouysJep yey} JO NO 39S 0} ONURIZ AIOM 9A “DIOM 9M IOYA 
yep os sem yt AyM sem yey) oqAeul ‘pasopd sem sn sAoge J00p 
-dey ay) aqheyy “WUOM om se BuT[quIMs ‘sure}s oy) dn ueI om 
‘reoy Aq paimdg ‘uowpew oy, Sunnoys ueSoq | pue jnory 
Jeep nok ary {punos Zuryoeso yewyp 
qesy nod 3,u0q ‘dn mojq 3uryjAIOAS oyeur 0} SuIOs s,jey) wISTU 
-BYSoul SY} $.11 aqARPy jIYST] & peg om ATUO JT jUTese st oO], 
jWistuvYysoUI JO LOS SUIOS SY] spunos yf jpoyH AJ jJoUIOS yey 
UI SJOY) JOAO ‘AIOU],, “Hoey poyse J ,.{7ey) Jeoy no< piq,, 
jpunos Suryovlo ve ‘asIou B ‘YY j[puodes 
Aue ye dn Mojq 0} ynoge sem BurjAIoAo oqhkeP * * * “ppIOM 
oy) JO Suruutseq oy) VouTS ‘sIeaX JoJ ‘sAep pue sAep IO}j [Jay yeu) 
UI PoUOsLIdull USOq PeY OM JY} OUI 0} PoUoes I] {OWN oy) SN ]]9). 
P[Nod OY AA jSJUSWIOW May ev ATUO UI Jo ‘MOU SBM JYUSIU MOLIOUIO} 
YO[D,0 WoAsfs sqhePy {OWN WU {I sem OW JeyM ‘YY 
| <c6H1 S1 QUIN IDYM,, 
sotye uTeIq Aut yes ysnf pey WySnoy} ]qQIIIO} we osneoeq do}s ysIIy 
oy) uo poddojs 7 Ajuappns yng ‘aseome}s ou) punoy | ATjeULy 
<< 4STU 
MOIIOUIO} YOO]I,O USAITA,, ‘SOATOSINO 0} poayeader am—yJep 
suI0deq Ose pey Joquieyd 9om}J0} oy) OUT SuTUsdO Joopden 
oy} ‘sn sAoge ‘JOJ—SsIIE}s 9U0)S 94) PUTS 0} SUIAN pue JopModun3 
oy} Woy Zurlsayy ‘ssouyJep oy)? YSnos) podois om se puy 
[JUST MOMOUIO} YOO]I,O USAT ,,“90e1 UBUINY sy} JO sJoq 
“WOW AUBUL,, 0} UONE[IYIUUe JUL}SUT SULIQ prnom jesnyjar Joy yey) 
MOUY JOU pynod sys pue ‘osdiod SUTATT Jey) 0} UY) J[OS} YJeOp 
0} Peleus oq Joye prnom sys Ajomg Zou Aes 0} [Te] sys prnoo 
MOY PUY [JUST MOO) YOO[D,0 USARTA ‘OU pres sUNSTyD 
Ji soueuLojiod oy} JO o[pprur oy) ut dn uMolq oq [fe prnom aM 
jJYST MOIOUIO} YOO[I,O USAT “PyJOM 9y} UT sJapfnoys pofamol 
-0q A[YSIAR] JSOUI PUP SOT[SAOT SY) YIM OABIS sTY OJUT UMOP O8 
Pinom oF] ZUJVap STY JO UOTSEDDO oY} JO} oIIsap ay prnos A[quiesse 
Jouly yeu AA “eI3adQ oy) Jo wed Joddn juapusjdsas oy url SuTayes 
SANSA OY} Je ,,‘d08I UvUINY 94} Jo sIoquiow Auvut,, ‘ajdood 
Aueu 9q P[NOM sd], ‘[[oM SW smy Ussoyo pey oy pue “YSTU 


6h2 VaddO AHL dO WOINVHd SHI 


«cGQOOfD,0 USAS[o YOIGM ING,, 
_ MOAR]O 0} SOINUIW SATJ JOUII JO “YSO[D,O USAZTY,, 
< GOUNSLYD “IE ST SUH WU M,, 
UU SeM OWN JeYAA {SINOY pu sINOH 
“QUT JSE] DUO UOTSIOOp JOY JOAO YUTY) 0} dUOTe 
Jay Sutavay ‘yno ouod ysnf pey sy ‘[[oy yey) Jo sMoYy pue soy 
Jaye ‘Ayjeuly ‘ooe1 UeUINY oy) JO SJOQUIOUI [Je JsUTEse seam) 
ap suryeur ‘pasnjer AjwJoqqms pey oy Ing “JoquIeyo amMyI0} 
OU) OFT JOY Oye} pynom oy Jt ‘IoAoMOY ‘jt Avs 0} pastuosd ayg °}! 
Aes 0} posnjox oys pue sok Avs 0} Joy Joy payrem oy apryM ApjuEys 
-U0D POABI pey f{ “‘Pouloos J ‘o[qLLIa} Us0q pey JoysUOW! OY], 
‘QATTE [NOKY PUT OAD P[Nom sys JI UMOUY JOU pey yg “peqqos 
oUNSHYyD ‘Tem oy} Ysnonp Suryye) ueseq sn Jo sey} [IV 
< (hovy jnovy,, 
[O010A S SUNSLYZ ‘[]TeA\ sy) UO podde) suosulog ‘sda}s}00} pides 
Aq pomoy]joj ‘sioop Jo punos e plesy | “WoyeISIW JOU sem | 
‘WIOOI JXOU SY} UI sdajs}oo} prvoy pey | Jey) SUI 0} Poulsos 3] 
"pres | ,,j29INO,, 
"sn JO peoye SMO SAO} peY [NS OM 
agkey] ‘paresy aM JY) YOOTI,0 UdAg[a OY) JOU sem HW aqAeU ng 
"yOo]O,0 usasta Apoexo oq IYSTU WI Jey) pospnf oy spueYy 
S}I JO UONIsOd OY} WO “SEM [LIP SI JO do} ay} aJaYM SUTULIO}Op 
0} Yd}eM OY) Jo BULI ot) BuIsn Joye ‘sdHiosuly sty WIM spuey oy} 
pouonsonb oy oTIyM soUSTIS B SEM SIOY], ‘spuey sy Sur[oay pue 
yovem Sy JO sse[s ou) SUTyROIG JO vopl oy} pey [noKY © * * “MOUY 
O} pey om ING ‘YOU B peYy SN JO IJOYION {}! SBM UIT) JY 
‘Ajorxue pnyured oyu sn Moy) Sutuodo st Ysnompj outed yey) 
punos jsaxYy3I[s ay, “Joopden oy) ssoj[d 0} poly AyuIeA pey | 
‘NUIT [NJayeJ oy) payoval oA JOU pey OM Je) 
odoy sn 39] P[NOM Jey) UOTSN[IUOS B MLIP 0} POL} OM Jey} Wl] 
‘eIadQ oy) 0} BuTWOD aJOJOq ‘SUTUSAD 9} JOJ SUISSoIpP SeM oY 
QTY IT puNOM peY oY Jey) OU Plo} oH “SuTUUNI [[Ns se s [NORY 
ynq ‘poddojs sours Suc] pey yoyem AW] jSpuey SUTAOU YIM yore 
B 99S pfnoos om AyUO J] ‘suTUOSeaI Jo s[qedeour aJaM OM yNq ‘aJay} 
useq pey 9M BUC, MOY SpIOSp 0} POL om ‘auIT} oY} passnosip 
OM ..{JYSIU MOLIOUIO} YOO[D,O USAITY,, {IF SBM SUIT) JEU 
‘ssoupeul pue edsop uMO JNO ynq 
Zuryjou ‘sn JO JoyJIA poJomsue SUTYJOU Ng ‘oFI] SITY poavs pey 
] yu) WY popurwMel | “YAW popes |] puy ,,jsupsuYyD jounsnyo,, 
‘ISUays SUIAIAAL SITY [Te UM INO Porld [noeY “po[[eo aM “poynoys 
OM {]I SBM SUIT EY AA ‘OUTZeSeUT JopMmod yey) Wo sn poyeredes 


XNOLFT U04SUS) 0SZ 


sy} [Te pue eiodg oy} dn Mojq prnom a ‘st yey3—dumnf prnom 41 
pouin sem Joddoysseid op JI yey) oztTeor 07 AyIpIony Y8nous pey 
[TMs | ng “uTeIq pajysneyxe ‘100d Aw Suryoyeios oom Joddoysses3 
oy} pue uoldioos oy) pue ‘Surssed oJom soynUI oA ou], 
“104 
Os u90q pey i AYM poyse pur ‘pjoo Mou sem YoIyM ‘Tem ou} 
yoy ous puy ..jured ur nod ory j[noey,, “no AID 0} sn pue 
Jessy Sundnusjur yday syg “pey om ueYy} oJOUI DAD pardy 
-jns pey ays sdeysod pue ‘sunejyjns uewmy jo sowonxs oy 
peyoeal savy jsnul “sInoy Imoj-AJUSM} Bsoy) SuLNp ‘00} ‘ays 
"yooods snoltfep sowye “udyolq s,oUuNSLYD jo Surueow oy 
sonpolder 0} SUIAQ UI sadUsjUAS JUaIOYOO posn oroy oaey | 
«« 4814 Kian dul Aoyy pue ‘dumf 
sioddoyssein jioddoyssei3 oy} Jo jnjores og jsoddoysses3 ou, 
“pres osye oy ‘so ‘YO “AJsopoul s,uewIOM e& areds 0} MOY MoUy 
ULUIAUSS B OSNV9q SONUTUT SAT JOF UOTE 9q SUI 39] P[NOM 
sy SulAes Joye OW Yo] oY ‘UOWOp YyuUNIP e oy SurySne] [Hs 
“USL, jOYC] OY} OUT J MOI) 0} Sulos sem oy pue ‘urese popsou 
9q JOAoU prnom Aay yey) ples sy Ing “JOASIOJ OJIM SIY 9q P,J ‘PIP 
oy JI ey) pastwoid pue Ioqureyo oinjJ0) ay) 0} ASY oY} SUI SAIS 0} 
soouy AU UO WY posseq | ‘uOWsp yunIp ve oy] poysner] oy urese 
puy .jqjeop Jo wool oy} ‘woor sddipiyg-stno7y sy) our yorq 
QUIS J USYM OU SI Jomsue MOA yey} MOUY I],] ‘Joddoyssesz oy 
wim nod J] ‘Wool jUSWIESeSUO oy} ‘UIOOI oddrIYg-smo'] au) OFT 
yoeq SUIOd J UsyM SoA SI JoMsue INCA Jey? MOUY [I,J ‘UONSaITp 
oyisoddo oy) ul s0Ry Wf oyeUT 0} ‘JOAId s}t UO UOIdIODS oy) WIN) 
noA Jf ‘ou pue sok Aes yeu) sjeumue a1,Aoyy, ‘ozuoiq osourdey 
UT payeywT [fom AOA YOG ‘Joyo oY) UT Joddoyssels e pue 
XOq 9U0 UT UOIdIOds & pul] [[,NOX “WooIpeq eddijryg-smo7y oy} Jo 
Qd0Id[ayueW ay} UO sexoq AUOgS oY) suado yey) Aoy azuoIq aPIT] 
OU} S191, “pres pue yeep pue oft] Jo Seq opi] oy} OUT poyouar 
Off jUOWIDp YUNIP & sy] sem sy ‘sox .jOp pfnom ueulopuSs 
8 ZUIYJOWOS jOU S.JeY, “SOX Avs NOX UoYyM ‘aptIq Ays ve ayT] ‘our 
JO JUOIZ UT YsN[q NOA aye 0} JUeM 3,U0p | “A}JSOPOU UMOUY-[]OM 
inof Jo asnes9q suoye nod sAegq] [J jSemMuUM sALy, ‘our 0} 
pres oy UoyM UOWep YUuNIp ev oy]] SuTysne] sem oF “SurySne] idoy 
oy puy jSeXo Uapjos sty wor sured any pue “yseUr sty JJo yoo) oy 
pue ‘oRlUeU & OY] poy) OH jSUIAJWIO) s.oFY “YO, Oy USM 
UTBZe JeY} OUI P[O} B}7,, “UONOWS YIM asIBOY SOIOA vB UI pres 
OUNSHYD ,,“Weap JO ofl] Sploap [IM JY} YOo[D,O UdAgIO dL, 


TSc VdaadO AHL dO WOLNVHd SHL 


ay) ooS pue ‘o]josIouepeu ‘soxoq AUOg> 9[}T] 94} OJUT Yoo] 
‘asvaid | se ‘quem | SurmpAue osopo pue uodo | pue sioopden jo 
IJOAO] OU) WJ Bsned0q ‘Koy B ynOWIM ‘soxog AUOge apy] oy) Uodo 
Il.] ‘O29H ‘ae] 00) 304 JOU Sqr Ng,,—jamsoduios SuTUaYsLYy 
yons yIM—, Joddoysses3 oy} yono) 1,uprp ays pue,,—jayods sy 
Ajuyeo Moy—, ,WoTdI09s 9Y) YON} },UPIp sYg “see BJosTOWape|y 
0} S908 JoUOY sYy],, ‘penuNUOD oy puy ,,’dn SumpAoAs MOTQG 
IL.[ 10 ‘e3ozep ‘plom ® JON,, “Tem AU pulyeq USZOIZ poojs | 
yeu) A[p[Od Os pres oy 3Ng ‘WTY ydnUjUT 0} poly | yUIOd sitp IV 
«co STQNOH 
Aue osnes 0} Jou An ‘uoy) ‘TJ9MK,, “9U0) [NJooved ATLIeUIpIO 
-eI)XO ue UT paJomsue oy ,.{dJ0Y) Ul SIP 1,UpIp OM) NOX,, 
_.Goul 9ZzTUZOdeL NOA OG je S,I],, “A[PNo] pres | ..jIWA,, 
‘ZurmAue SulAes ynNoyIM 
‘guIIsIyD poutofer pey off “doys usw ‘wWoospaq oddiyryg-sinoy] 
au) ysvoidde sdajs}ooj sty preoy 9A, “SUTUIOD psopul sem OH 
_ {TY Jeay J,, “OUNSLYD pollo , ,{SUMWOD s,9H,, 
_ JUOIdIoos sy} YOno} 1,u0q,, 
{yoeq sulo0d jou oy pey Aya “Acid 
ATEUNIOA STY 9Q 0} JUDSUOD IJOAD P[hom ouTsLYD yy) sdoy ATTear 
JOU PjNos ay SOUIS ‘IOF We 0} Alou ZuIJOU peYy 9H “UOTSO;dxa 
Ayy8rur oy) Joy ZuNTem Mou se puke sdeId oJes B O} BUOS peYy oY 
Ajqeqoig *yoeq ourod 30U [INS pey oy pue ‘passed souls Suoy pey 
SOUT AT] SY, ZOI9I) JOU oY sem AY JO ‘eJodO sy} dn MOjTq 
P[nom yey) UoTdIOSs ay} seM Wt SQACUN :UTeSe OUTSTIYD PoAlooop 
Savy IST oy yeu) ‘YL AU MOUY | JOJ ‘oul 0} paLMdo0 pey I] 
«olf YONO) },U0q,, 
_, UOIdIODS OY} JO OI UT,, 
_gnok are alaya,, ‘No polfed | ,,“auNsuys,, 
“‘QOugTIS B SBM DIOL 
‘[noey pres , ‘08 ‘3urpep Aw ‘on,, 
‘Surusddey wosy sydonseyes oy) yuoAcd Ajans 
Pinom 3 Surusm ‘Apucasoy os poyuem YI yey) ,,S0A,, olf} 0} 
popuodsazioo yt sours *ApayeIpoUTUT UOTdIOSS Oy) WIN} 0} peYy OS 
‘gIodQ s[OYM oy} pue sn SuTUS}eOIy) JosuULp 9Y) yNoge Joy po} 
Apjomb ay ‘Ayue]o pue yysues sj [Je poureser savy 0} pouoes 
pUIL S.[NOvY ‘UTES SOIOA S,SUTSLIYD pseoy pey oy yey} MON 
‘quIzeseul Jopmod 
ay) JJO 30S p[noo yey) JUaLMS OLNOVJO ue poyfonuos Joddoysses3 
ou} Jey) Iqnop OU peY | ‘J OpmsUT ,.dde1 UBUINY oY} JO SIOQUIOUL,, 


XNOAFT UOJSDE) CSS 


"* + ‘TJeq ot) suedo uoldioos oy], ‘oserueul Ino jo usAeoy oy} 
0} SN puss [[IM I UeOWI J jp[Myo yooouUT ‘jou esmMod JO,, 
«GSN [TPT PEM Wf uBou nox jYO,, 
<, USABOY 0} SN PUDS [[IM Jey} UO dU} S,jI ‘soz, 
«<GUIN} 0} DUO 3} ST UOIdIOOS syj IVY} SAO JeUIOFUT 
mod Aq Jeoms no []IM ‘Ia}suoWl NOX ‘our 0} JeaMms NOK TTTM,, 
“puey Siy pozios savy YSNU OYM ‘OUTISIYD polo . jx, 
. oddoysseis ‘dune 
‘o][JesIouopeul ‘aXq-poon, ‘passed savy soynu om) su], 
-yos Ajfeorjesue Mou ‘ad10A sty preoy om ATTeULy 
CUTTY YIM Srp [fe SN oxBU 0} paploap pey YY 
FL ye {dn Mojg SurppAIOAS oYeUI pfnom yey) UOTIdIODs ay) aIoMm 
HE JT YYAA “UOIdIoos oy) UM 0} poyeysoy cys AYA poojsiopun 
OM ‘Spuodes yeUIZ ssOY} SULINp purU USyOLNs-orued s,ouNSUy> 
ur oovjd Surye} sem yeyM Jo oreme ATQLUIOY YJoq alam 9AA “ISING 
YSTW W preye ‘Joao puey Au ynd | yey) Apuspora os Surpunod 
SPM YWeoy AU ‘our JOJ sy “Surkeld ‘soouy sty UO seM [NOEY 
‘Avid ynq Op 0} Yo_ SuMpou sem Joy) yey) pozifeor Suraey 
| “ULIO}S 
B JJO JOS pmnod yw ‘UITY posvajdsip piom o[8UIs e JI yey) pue 
‘UONOASP JWopse JSOUI 94} JO SUITIO STU] JsOU oy) JoyIIA JO 
aqqedes ‘odor sty Jo puo oy) ye sem oY JUBOW WT O0I0A Avo 
“qnyooeed “uwiyed yey} UT oyods YU UOYM Jey} MoUyY J ‘SsoUaTIs Sur 
-ULJETE JOyJO 9} [fe UeY) SuTUEle sJoWI ‘pouMsal SOUDTIS SUT, 
A YSTY 
d4aa dumf sioddoysseis yey) Joquiowier puy ‘1oddoysses3 oy 
UIN} [IM J—[Jam AIOA suNI yey) YoeM ke DALY [—UOTdIODsS 
ot} pousn} },uaAey nod saynuru om} UT JI,, :uoy) ‘soUDTIS V 
<<{SM JOF SUIT [[IM s[[oq SuIppom oy? puy ‘uoIdioos oy) WIM 
0} SUIOS 31,nOoA,,—jseMm SdI0A sty ATeom MOoYy—, spuey Ayod 
Mo yyIM ‘osnedeq ‘ayl[ JO YIS oy) Woy) AI3 0} ZuIOS o1,nozx 
‘Iaaqiahoy Aq sdoIdiajseur 1ood e 3utpnejdde mou are oym 
suvisieg palpuny [eJoA9s 9} 0} JUOSaId OUT] B SATS 0) BuUIOZ 
a1.noA ‘aljasiowepeul ‘Suippom Ino jo JOUOY UT “popooyy oq 
IM Jopmod yey) [fe ‘uoldioos oy wim nok JT ‘pooysoqysreu 
sueg 2foym e& Aonsop 0} Jopmodun3s y8nous st sn sspug ‘dn 
UMOTQ 9q [TP [[,9M ‘oT[astouopew ‘1oddoyssess oy) uN) NOA Jy,, 
"QOI0A ssofouo} ‘Apeojs B UI pres sem SI) [TW ,,‘1dA00 S)I 
Aq yooq #8 o8pnf 3,uked nok yng jssapmey os woes Koy puy 
{Aoy) 3,Uare ‘apeur Ayeonstear ox, Aoyy, “speurue op Aad 


€G¢ VaadO FHL JO WOLNVHd dHL 


pinom oye] ou} Aq osnoy sfOYM ou} ‘Jey) Oy] UO JUOAA HT JT “JOOL 
au} JoAO Sutpeoids uesoq pue ‘Ie[[20 oy} JO jno oUTeD WI puy 
“BUISLI [JS SPM JayeM OY} pUL IJeTIIO 
ay} JO NO som 9M “do}s pfnom I soy MOUY JOU PIP 9A 
: ‘JE][9D SY} OJUT SWIOD P[NOM syL] V[OYM oy) ‘Jey DAI] 
UO USM I IT [axe] oy} Aq ssnoy sy) UI JoJeAL UO SuUNUNS OU sem 
aay, jouop yjom gol y jpoumorp ‘poysem Jopmoduns Jey) [TV 
"Wt Ui dn 
ZUIWIOD OJ9M OM MOU PUP J3}eM JY} }9OUI 0} UMOP dUOS pey OM 
‘days Aq days ‘qystu yorTq ou} UT SITES oy) dn yORG oUTED 3M, 
"sse[s B WO se ‘IeTI[O9 
oy} WOIy ‘Je[[ao oy UI yUeIP 9M puYy ‘syJNOW INO oO} ‘sUTYS 
INO 0} dn sUIeD I] “OZETQE S}eOIY) INO YIM FI SOU 0} UMOP JOM 
OM jJ3I8M (Z]19S 0} spoureq Auy jsjolieg js[oueg) ‘Iopmoduns jo 
sjolieq cup [fe ‘sjaueq oy} AOR ‘Je][Oo S_yLI Ul SUISET sem 3] 
. JCM ZUISKY [INCA joe 
"Ja}@M JO PUNOS 9Y) UYIM JOAD UeY) 
JOSUONS PoUIMjor ‘SUID JOLIO} USYM JOT pey YOY ‘jsITy) INC 
jIayVM [OOD 
jJOJVM [OOD jSSeufoos yeu, jJoopdeyH oy) OJ, jJoopden sy) OL 
‘punos ZUI[smM3S & MOU SPA I] 
jUa}sV] jUaIsI'] jJoopdey sy} OL 
" ‘Jaqem SuIYsNI Oy] BOW “ITZ JO SSTY OY) JOU SBM IT 
j2IDA 
upwuny ayj fo staquau Kuow ytim dn umojq aq 01 Kppas ‘vay 
3uipunod anok 4aao0 spuby Yyjog ploy puy juassy ‘uajsy ng 
"pnoy AISA WOU} ‘Jopnoy op] & 
Udy) ‘ISI ye JUTeJ ‘OsNy B JO puNos sy oY) Oy] ‘ssty Suomnbstp 
B preoy om ‘WYSTU YORTq OP UI MEU YoRTq eB ‘ssouyep sy 
ur uodo Joopdey oy) Yysnomy “JoUOY Jo xeuypS & Jo SuruUIseq 
oy) oq IYSIU yey) SSuTUp ‘J00J INO YEoUNG ssXqu oy} UT SUTyOeIO 
SSUT) 39} OA jSUINI pue JopuNy) Jo JSPR ot) UT S}Iq 0} UMOTG 
oq 0} SUTEAA jSUTIEAA jYSNOIy) JIM aM puUOdaS B JEU 
.JUOIdIOOS OY} pouINy OA] “FLA,, 
‘Avid 0} ponuuos 
‘SooUy SIY UO [NS ‘[noey “s,aUTsTIYD 0) Soro Au poutof pey | 
. /ysnoug, , 
Ae, LSS a 
,, Joddoysseis 
oy} Win} [[,J Woy], ZUOTdIoos oy) JUeM },UOp NOX j[Yysnoug 


XNOAFT U0jSV) PSC 


ssaid pue USA Ite oY) PUI] pfnoo om [IN ZuIpYM UO O83 0} pey oA 
‘uiaysAs uOnRTHUA Jo wos somos ysnoI BSuldeoss yt IwoY 
plnoo om ‘sn wWoIy AeMe poysnNs Ie sy], ‘JoyeAA Yep oy} saoqge Ie 
Yep oy} oyjeelq 0} Sn JOJ pvY svar # ‘IoJeM Yep oy) Ul pops3nys 
OM ‘POYOYS oA “WMS OA SB Po[SURJUS sUTeDOq sue MO 
(ULIMG (UMS Of BADY AM (9]QI440Y S J] (ON 
jON °° ° “Buiddoys st 32 yuryt J ‘saX “Jaaaz uMO S}i pulf o1 svY IJ 
"dois jim 4ajom ayy aqkou ‘yp satfy jdaquiauad 0} KAZ g4aquivyo 
ainjio] ay fo suijiaa pawop ayl pup aai uo ay) fo youvaqg 
ays uaamjaqg asayi si aovds yonu moY] j4aquiauas 01 Ki] 
‘BUISLI [JUS Sem JoyEM OU, 
"90l} UOI Sy} JO Yours 
oY} 0} ZUIZUITD YIOG BIOM 9M UOOS pUR [NOeY 0} PoaTyed | “90n 
UOT SY} JO YUN oy) pozias spuvy suidoss Apppim Aur Ajuoppns 
‘OBEYOIIM JO SOOsId DYI] J9}eM 9Y) Ul SUIPITYM JOM OY 
<b [NOA 0} SFI] Jo soyes oy) pousdo | joIp 0} Sulos o1oM nox 
jPoWIOOp 10M NOX jJaquiswloy jazi] INOA poaes | jAWA jAVA,, 
‘uelopusze JO smopy Asoy oy} Jo 
SUIT} SY} Ul MOPUTA SIQISIAUT 9]}}T] OU} YSNoIIY ou 0} Zum) v Yons 
UMOYS IJOACU pey Yq ‘ouoAue 0} uoddey jy) uses JoAoU pey 
[ (J9qUIVYS 91N}I0} SY) UI PoUMOIp ‘dJ0U) IP 0} SUIOS 9M SIDA 
"JoyeM SUTUIMYS SY} SAogeE poem 
sjeolu} ino pue ‘AeMe sn sAOYs 0} poutoas Ady} pue SIO 
ep oy) jsulese UMOT) BOM BAA “UONOU SuIpMs [nyzamod 
S}I Ul I UJIM SN poLeds JoyeM OU) puke ZUTOOFJ MO }SOT OAM 
joUnsIYD jouNsYyD jyU_ jYU_ ‘sn surpryo “surquays 
‘sn Sulddis Iayem yep oy) YIM ‘yep oY) UT oUOTe aIOM OM 
jUOTdIONs oy} WIN} 0} 9UO ON jJajeM JY} JFO 
WIN} 0} 9U0 ON j9U0 ON [WOO }xou 94) Wo Zurjou “ZuIyJON 
"JOON 
SUISII OY} ING SUTYJOU pIvoY 9AA “JOMSUP JOU PIP oUNSYD Ing 
, {Seeuy mo o7 dn si] 
jSUISLI SI JoJeM DL,, “Ppoywoys [Novy , jouUNsUYyD jounNsuy,, 
"SOATeO INO Jo B[ppruu oy) 0} dn Apeorye sem yf *1OyeM 
SUIS OW} Inq SuMpOU preoy OMA “JOMSUB JOU PIP YWY Ing 
, jUOTdIODS oy) WIN], jJJo 
WI WIN], jJopmoduns oy) Joj JoyeM YSnous s dI9UL, [YA (AVAL, 
"JJO 71 WIN} O} DALY plnoM YY jJayem Ysnous 
uey) sow Apeorye sem oro], ‘poyselds 90% INO YOIYM UT SyP] 
OPI] & J[AsW seM JoqUIeYD 9INj10} 94) JO IOO[J SY, ‘pepoory oq 


gcc VdaadO 4HI dO WOLINVHd dHL 


<<GHOS 0} spoureq Auy jsjoueg jS[or 

-eg,, ‘SUy3m3 oy) YsnoIy) ‘presy | JY) OW 0} Poses JI SsoU 

-SNOIDSUOD JSC] [ WOFJoq ysnf puy ‘ses INO UI SuUTTsINS e ‘I9;eM 
yep oy) JO s0ejNs oy) YJeoUDG ‘sIeo MO UI puNos 3ul[sINS VY 
« APUNSHYDY jAUH,, 

{KID ISP] BUC [Oo Ise] ouQ “YUMIs 0} SuTuUTsEq 

O10M OM MOU JN ‘SUTPITYM TMS aJaM 3AQ “Way} ssoioe poddiys 

sJosuly ayelodsop Aur pue ‘syjem sseyd oy) ‘sya ou) ye poyo nyo 

[ ‘ou SuTUOpuege sem W3UeNS AU Ing “WI YsUTese syNOW INO 


XNOAIT U0jSVS) 9GZ 


LGC 


OSCUIT SNOSPIY oY} ‘SSOUPIATA SUTYLNS WIM ‘oyoAS A[snoouryuods 
PInoM sy “soliowoeur sry Aq poyefnus ‘saunMouIOs pue ‘suon 
-sonb Aur Jomsue pmnom oy alojoq oun Suoy e WY TIM peord 
0} pe J SoWNeWOg ‘saocId pur sjiq UI WIY Wor A10)s o8ueNs 
}8Y} JO PUS OY} JOBNXa 0} pey | pue ‘uoneySe ureyico ve Aq poddus 
Suloq MOWIM ysed oy} Jo sIOMOY oY) [TeOor JOU p[nos oF 
‘Ieg[o ayinb poureursl pey 
PUTUL STY IN “S9ASO|S SII SpIsUT squINny) sty SuI[pprm} Aq JposumTY 
posnuze A[snorosuooun pur yoo a|duits ‘asoo] B aI0M ayy ‘poarys 
useq peYy “yey URYyyeNse ue YIM poradoo ATyensn ‘peoy sip ‘porn 
AJ9A POYOOT 90vj Jood sty 3ynq ‘saXo yusorluseul sty pey [Vs 
oH “UeUI IING-[[9M “owWospueY B Ud9q SdUO peY oY yey) 90S P[NOD 
J 20979 J[OSUTY Ploy 0} poly} oy se pue ‘neyouITe Siq & UT Is OTF 
‘SUaples SOLON], 9) SULFOOTIOAO MOPUTM B OPIseg OUI POAIo0aI 
UBISIOg SY], “WY 0} OUT poy OYM dy SBA #T PUe ‘LUTY YIM [INS sem 
sniweqd JUBAIES plo [NyyMey SIE] “OW YIM sOUDLIOdxa s][qQIpaioUT 
SIY SAI[OI 0} JUOSUOD WHTY SyeU 0} YIN] Jo QOIAIOS SY} Ul UPLIO}STY 
~Joviodal B sv Jopre AUI [Je UeY) ssof ZuTpOU Yoo} yt pue YSIS AIOA 
SEM dH ‘“Sole[IN], oy} oysoddo ‘tjoary ep ony ou) uO yuoUTEde 
OT Sty Ur SUIAT] YS sem oy ‘wWIY 90s 0} JUOM | VOU 
"J[OSUITY UeISIOg 94) Aq oul 
0} PO} sem AIO}S au} JO ISOI SY], ‘UONOASP ouNTTQns s,seeq oun 
-SIYD Aq poaes aiom uorueduios sty pue AuSey> op Jnoey ‘ure; 
-J99 pouloes WJesp YoY Ul UOHENIIS & Jo JOWOY ay) ayIdsoq 
‘OU SARS UPISIOg 
OU} JeY} JUNGSOV US}LIM OY} JO PUS DY} 0} OUIOD MON JAVH AMA 


£10} 2A0'] S,jS0Yys) ay} Jo puy 


LC 


_ WY oyeM 7, UsnUl 344 ‘Mou dogjse 
Sd} ‘eSosep ‘oATT 0} Burlos aJom Nod JI MOUY 9M aIOJoq 3U0] 
SSOUSNOTISUOD PoUresal 3H],, ‘Pres YL” ‘ejos sy} UO [noeY preMo} 
poppou pue dnd s,ueisiog oy} OJUI UNI OPT] & pamnod oy sv 
‘ydo[s [Ns ‘o[TYMUPROU! “[NOeY ‘UeISIOg 9} 
0} SAIS pue Joy WOIJ aye} pfnom FLY YOM va} JO STUO} j0Y JO 
dno ev 3y3no01q ATTeUoTsed90 pue ‘s0UaTIS JO MOA & USZe) pey OYAL 
unu & oy] ‘A[SSa[aSIOU PoAOUI 9YG “pom wv Aes JOU PIP USL 
‘wioor oddiyg-smno'] payenbyue oy) ut yueds oy ou) OU} Te 3ul 
-INP JeyJ—UTY 0} dBueNs poulsos sty} pue—Ajseo]d poloquisulal 
oy Inq ‘[feoes JOU PIP UeIsIog oY} Jey} SBUTY) JOyJO ples Off 
_ JOYJOU! o[quIosTuUy 
‘rood Aur WoIZ YS] SAVY | [Te SI] Lom Aus ye SULAOOT 91,NOZ 
{eSorep ‘Jayeq Surjeog Nod ory, , ‘APJos pres pure Jes s UeIsIad Ol} 
0} UMOP pouRs] 9] “o[QePUoJ sJOU! Up [Te PoUloes UBL poyseul 
ay} jo amnsy sy) ‘Sumas pouorysej-pfo ‘Azoo ‘ApH yey) Ul puy 
‘govjd oye) ysnf pey yey) SJUSAD ONsEUR; OU} [[e UeY} DIOU! PUT 
oY} Paoouoosip ‘sIe]JI9 vIsdQ sy} Jo WON0g ol} Je “o[quuoseel 
pue jnjooved os ‘ssourjsn Aswoy A[suryono} tou) YM ‘ssurystu 
-INJ Bsoy} [[e—oueos sjoym oy) SuNYyst] Apoorostp “s]qQu} [esopod 
e uo poojys yey} due, popeys oy) ‘3839 YoLNso snouloue ue 
pure ‘sjeoq [Jeod-jo-Joyjour ‘suorysnouid par ‘sT[oyseas SutAvydsip 
SOATOYS SU} ‘dddId[a}UeUT oy} JO PUD JaYIIE UO Saxoq 9p] SUTAOO] 
-ssopuey oy) ‘YOo]o oy) ‘sIeYyoULIe ay} Jo sydeq oy} UO poor|d 
Aynjored sxesseovuue poyoyooro apt] ou) ‘ssuTIy sseiq WIM 
Jassalp oy) ‘sTeyo AueZoyeul poxem oy} ‘poq Poammo sy] “Ssoreul 
-yy3tu SuTyeM Jo UleWOP S.yI_ OI pamjusA savy O} ysnous 
ysel auokue ZuLoppimeq Jo ssodind oy} Joy poyWoAUl Uaeq SARY 
0} pauses WOOI oP] JoINb Jey) Jo s[rejop sse[d-o[Ppru ‘astooid 
ay} ‘Jaquieyo oINjJO} oy} JO SUOISNT]I pue sosewW oy} Joy 
‘WHOY} JOAO SUTyO}eM BJOM UOWSp 
B pure joSue UY ‘OqoIpseM JOLIUL oy} aptsoq Bos B uO AB] [NoRY 
‘pag & UO SUIAT JJOSWTY puNoy oy ‘sofa sty pousdo oy USA 
“oul 
QAIZ 0) YSNOUD pUTY Us0q Pe oy JUNOSR USHLIM at} a}0[duWI05 
0} OUT 0} IT Po} ay se ‘AIO}S BIQLIIO) Jey) JO PUD OY) SI sIOY PUY 
‘JayeM OY) UT ssou 
-Snoldsuod ZuIso] Joye Woorpeq sddi[iyg-smmoy] oy) Jo smopeys 
Suneambsip oy} ul Surusyeme siy poquosop oy uo pasoainb 
ay Aem ot) 998 [INS ues J ‘oye oy) Aq osnoy oy} UT YsNoIy) ouo03 
pey AuseyD op [noey pue oy yey} SINOY a[qQLUI9} oy) pue “ALY Jo 


XNOAF] U0JSVS) 9SZ 


SUL “OQhOg any at) Jo uoMoaNp oy ur ‘eiodQ oy) Jopun ayPy] 
ot JO aJoYs at} UO punoy useq pey Apoq siy] ‘peop sem oddiryg 
wy} pue uses Us0q JOU pey [norY Jey) pours, oy ‘oddiryg 
yUNOD ‘Iay}I0Iq sty JO SWOY oY} Je [NOeY ynoge yse o} snueEG 
yuos oy ‘AJIPION] pue ySuaNs sty poureSar pey oy se uoOS SV 
"ABMB ZUIOS alojaq [[oqIOop oy) Buel OYM sUODUIOS 
Aq 348n01q Useq pey dy sJ0yM “UoUTEde SITY JO JOOP om) opis}no 
a10J9q IYSIU st} punoy usaq pey sy JY) WY pfo} OYM ‘snug 
Inyuprey sty Aq pepusy ‘woospoq UMO sTy UT oy¥OME OY OUD STU 


"Thoey OTT 
‘ydofs oy Ayjeury ‘oyoepeoy e wiry oAe3—ojdurexo Joy ‘pousdo 71 
usyM Suryeonbs ogosprem JOLTU oy} Jo JOOP ay]—puNos }SOJYSTIS 
om) puew “yeom AIOA [INS SEM OF] ‘[NORY pue UTY JOAO SUTULZ] 
pue WIOOI oY) ssoioe ApUaTIs Supls ouo ayy s,oUNSYD pue 
aINSIy YOU S,YlIq SUlses posoquioulal uvisiog amp ‘yeu) 1YyV 
“Wpeoy S,sUOAIOAD 0} snoJasuep AI9A 9q p[nod Ht esnedeq 
‘9s[a ouoAuR JO ,,aJIM STY,, 0} sou Sutou Aes 0} Wy SUISTApe 
qoye “YULIp 0} uonc 1 & ueIsiog oy) oAeS pue yorq ouIeO YI 
"WHTY Tes JOU PIp sys ssnedeq ‘Yoo Joy UT passoISuo 
Ajdsop sem oys APuspras 3nq ‘urese auTsty> pores Apnues oF] 
.< OJIM Au aseoid 0},, ‘pres pey YL YOR ur ouO} 
[einjeu otf} Ieoy [[NS p[nod uvisieg SY] “SUOTIPS Yyons ul sIeodde 
‘gjdurexa Joy ‘asuyD fo uoyonwy ayy ‘syiom snor3tax JO} posn 
Ud}JO FULIOJ & JO YOod pospa-313 ap] e Surpeor sem sys “IST 
-durel oy} Ul s[ord wyed s.cuNsLYD 3 poyoo] uEIsIag ou 
‘uoneuEldxe Joy Aue now uTese Yo] pue dn pooys uay) oH 
<< OJIM AU asvayd 
0} “‘punosaAoge NOX sy} UOOS |[],J PUB ‘MOU aJes YIOQ al,no po 
‘Thowy sxVM 0} JOU se os ‘urese Apyos ‘uNYy 0} pres oy ‘ostnd 
STY SUl[90J pue spIspoq s,UeISIag oY) ye UMOP SuNIIS Jay ‘soord 
~[2}UeU oy} UO 3nd oY JeYY saP0g OPT] oWOS YIM power YL 
‘QOUdTIS JO MOA B UDR} pey oy unu e& 
SB JUDTIS SB [ITS ‘oovjdary Sy} SpIsoq UMOP Jes pue yorq JOM oS 
"AyIngaoeed Surdsofs sem ‘ony st yt ‘oy ‘Tnoey Je Sours UdAd 
JOU pip oys Aeme poyyem oys sv yey) paloquiowlal oy puy ‘Aeme 
poyem usy} “peosyasoy sty uo puey Joy ynd pue wry 0} sure 
94S “Moyfid oy oJUO yorq [Joy oy ‘yYeom AJOA [TMS ‘Inq Joy 0} 
oyods pue oureu Jay porjeo off ‘ooe[damy ou) episoq pojeos ons 
SYM S SUNSHYD Mes pue ‘punose poyxooy ‘moqy]e ouo uo Jjosuny 
Postel UvISIog 94} ‘OW WOYSs & JOJ WOOT BY) YoT YU usm, 


6SC VaadO FHL JO WOLNVHd dHL 


"UY JO HOI; UT POOIS UBISIOd OU], 
"yseul 
sty Aq USppry SUM ORF STY JO JSAI OY], “Joys B se oped peoyoioy 
e Sulpeoaor ‘yey sty JJO Yoo) oF “Burey Jo plese aom oy 
JI se [jem oy) ysuTeSe pouvs] pue yeom ApoulaNxXe poulsos OH - 

"YlIq Sea I “}SOYS Oy) SVM I “UOYP}STU JOU SUM OH] 
“Aejap NOUN Ul VWTY MOYS 0} sNeC Pjo} ULISIOg 

dU} IONSTA Je|NZuIs yeyy Jo AWUOpI ot SurIsson3 ATayepouU] 
‘eSolep oy) 0} uayods pey sy [HUN sAva] JOU P[NOM sl yey} pres 
pey pue ‘oovy sy MOYS JO SUI STY SAIS JOU P[NOM OM JO}JISIA 
8 poounouue sneq weAIOs sty ‘aoy payuesoid AT[nyypIey savy 
] 2eW) WNoDe 9Y) Jo oUTT Ise_ oy) SUNUM poystuTy ysnf pey oy 
usm ‘BuTUdA9 3UQ ‘dn #1 oye} prnom ssoid ayy oqAeur ‘AuOUITSo} 
siy Jo wed ou poyuem ulajsAs yetorpnf oy) SOUT “S}LIM 0} uesoq 

ay ‘Suieoy & uTe}qgO 0} [Qe BuIeq JoAo Jo odoy ou Sulaey 
‘OHVUNT & Sy] poyeoy) sem URISIOg 
OU], “SSurm) Yons Jeoy 0} poredaid [fe ye Jou sem pue (FUT | yey 
oyIM ]) pur ueLsopod ‘teondays ‘moyyeys & pey OYM ‘omnes 
oy] ue e Aq poatooor sem AUOUINSS} SIY MOY SUTSeUIT 0} Aseo 
SI J] ‘WY 90S 0) JUOM URISIOg OY], “UOHeSHSoAUT oy) JO osreyo 

ul posed useq pey ane poweu syensiseu Suruuexs Uy 
‘gorjod ay} 0} SUTYJATSAD [[9} 0} Peploop oy “SUNSLIYD pue 
[Nory 0} pouoddey prey yeym SUIMOUY JOU Je Possolj}sIp pue SUTIS 

Mou yeu) Aq poeddy ‘syeysoy jou pip UeISIog 94} OS puy 
‘yoyem doy ‘peaq ou} JO oye] oy} JO UeIpPojsns 
oy) ‘UddS S.y_ ‘UOMS oy} JO ZuOS oy} DIOYM “OYL[ 94} JO BOYS 
ay} UO punoy us0q prey asdioo s,oddiymyg Ay ure[dxe 0} ysnous 
SBA SIU} ‘URISIOg OY} OF “YULAQe] puNnossIopuN [BUIOzUT Jel} OFT 
posunjd osye pey oddijmg ‘pew ouod pey [noery Jey} psourauo) 
‘xoq [o}std & apisaq ‘WOO! ZUISSOIp S,SUNSHYD Ul yey STY BSUTALI 
‘poreoddesip uay) pue vledQ oy} Jo sie[js0 oy} OFT OS 0} PoLN 
pey [Novy yey) pouseo] pue “TeAL onsEjUR; STY Jnoge WTY Plo} pey 
JoIOIG STY ssuIy) oBueNs ou pofeder ‘eIodQ oy} 0} YOR sUIOD 
pey oy ‘Woy puly o} Surrey 1oyy “youtodoje oy) I0j posedaid 
190q pey SuMpAIOAS Jey) MOUY oY aloymM ‘spossnig 0} peol ay} UO 
way) Jo ysind ul Jjo sus pey oddytyg ‘ouNSLYyD WIM podoyje 
pey Jopoiq sy yey Sutaoysg “Aposey ay) ynNsuosal Ajtseo 
00} [JB pmnoo oy ‘pip oy Sse YL SuIMOUY “JoJopINUl oy} pue 
JapMuUl oy} JNoge Jqnop ou peYy oy pu ‘JoquUIVYD aIN}O} oy} Jo 
[je ot) YSnomp) prey pey oy sseur Wornbel oy) po[[esed UeIsIag 


XNOLF] UOJSVS) 092 


-dey nof asnedaq jsnf a1p 0} Sulos aJom nox {ue unos yey 
WIM aro) noX asom AYAA ‘Nod 0} uOMUSye Aue ZuTXed sem ouo 
ou ‘Ayfenjoy *013Z 0} 9s0]d AISA pouloes SUTAIAMS JO GOULD MOA 
USM OUT} B Je ‘eSorep ‘oz INOA poavs sys pue ‘[3 sjqeIouoY 
pue poos & s,syg jpesy Joy UO Tey of8uIs & poyono) sey suOAUR 
yey} Jeay JOU J9}3}90q P.J PUY jpeop jou sous ‘ou ‘ON ‘°° ‘OW 
SUJODUOD JosUO] OU WT Ysnoy) ‘os yu) },u0p | ‘peap Sureq 
JO} SY j[1s a[qesouoy ue s,sys ‘YY jsdi] Aw Woy Aeme peoyaioy 
JoY SAOUI },UPIp ays pue ‘pesysioy oy) UO IY. passry J ‘soX,, 
<<GPeOp S,dYs MOU puy,, 
., SAT JOY possry 
J “SOX * °° “OTP 0} INOgGe s,oYM sUO sy} U.] Jey) NOA BuO) W.],, 
"Mose US YIM pres YNZ , {ey} oy] ow SuEyeys nod ore AYAA,, 
PATE JO peop S.OYs Ji oUt [fAL,, 
‘JI oyeys pue we 
STY JO pjoy axe} 0} posep ueRIsIog oy) ‘YL 0} oso[o SuIpueys 
<,jUBWIOM PBap B sB [NJNV|Q sv sem OYs pue ‘ATT Joy possry 
J ‘oalye ‘SOX “UBWIOM B PdSSTY JOA P.J JYJ—jou) Is ou) 
‘esorep ‘Ieoy NOA—OUIN ISI] OY} SEM YT * * * UONBATES [eUID}0 JOY 
UO UIOMS P,sYS ssneVdaq ‘aA717D JOY SSTY SUI JO] SYS WOYM sem oYsS 
[nJyNesq MOY MoUy NOA J] ‘pres [ se * : W Jo BulAp wT 90uIS 
‘esorep ‘Ioy SAO] [NS J puy jYyonul os Joy poaot [ * * * [ ‘st H 
MOY S.jJEY, “OAO] JO * * * BsoIEp ‘dAOT Jo * * * SIP 0} JNOGe W],, 
<«.Goeeq suNsuyD pue Auseys op [nory,, 
<< SIP 0} jnoqe wy,, 
«G88 SUNSLIYD pue AuseyD op [noey ore sJ0NA\,, 
66 “orp 
0} ynoge Uy * * * yey NOA ]][9} 0) yng © * addipryg yuNOD ynoge 
yfe} * * * 0} Joy SUIOS },UpIp J,, “pres pue peoy sty pamoq YY 
"URISIOg SY} PoLo ,jSUIA] O1,.noZ,, 
<< SFB] OY) OUT © © + Aypemnyeu pue Ayduns 
pue °° * Apisumyo uayey °° * p,oy ‘yuoprooe ‘pes Ayfngnid ‘pes 
"+ 8 “WuopIooe ue * * * SBM I “Sues USS oY} UOYM peop Apeorye 
"* stm OH ‘asnoy AW Yo, °° * J] UsyYM peop Apeaye ---: 
sem oH ‘oddiiyg junoD ynoge - * * ow 0} ye} } ,UOp ‘eSoING,, 
"yeoIq 
Joy Suidse3 ‘spioM Jo slajsnj[o [jews ul ayods ay uoyy, “YysIs doap 
B YIM FT OUI YURS pue ‘soUDTIS UT TeYyOUTe Ue 0} JUAM ‘palas3e}s 
Yq ‘uonsonb sty) ul poureyuoo uonesnose s1qlUa) om) IV 
«6988 SUNSHY pue IoyjoIq Sty YIM 
Op noX pip yey ‘AuseyD op oddyryg yunoD 3uepmu Iy,, 


19d VdaddO FHL JO WOLNVHd SHL 


powem ays °° © poXeys ays ‘ou ‘oN ‘Aeme UN} },UpIp sys “pyryo 
JIT & ueLY JoAYs ‘Joy preMo} OUTS | UOYM puy °° * “UOTBATeS 
[eUI9}9 Joy UO WIOMS p,oYs pue ‘agouRIy SUTAT] “Teor B OyT] “OATS 
‘yoo SuIpuvys ‘Sue sem OYS,, ‘UOTOWS JUOAIOJ WIOIZ Jeo] & 
oy] SUI[quIaN ‘uO JWOM YY ,,‘oUl JOF SuNTeEM seM OYS ‘SOX,, 
‘Trey poddo1d-asojo sty Jo 
ouds ut (JJasWITY SUT pjo} oY sv) JeY ULYYeIse sty JJO YOO) UOAD olf 
pue ‘JUIWIOU! UUIO[OS B YoNs ye poyeos UTUIOI 0} D[QISsOduIT SBM 71 
yey) Surpaoy ‘YG se ostndur sures oy SurXaqo ysnoy} se ‘osye dn 
pues 0} pey ‘ITeyoulse siy Ul UMOP yes peYy OYM ‘URISIOg OY} JEU} 
Ajaaei3 os dn pooys YL AI0}S SY UT yUTOd SIy} Je yey) SUIOOS I] 
_ SUI JOJ SuUNTEM SeM 94S “oUNSLYD 
0} yorq JUOM | pue oseo ye seM pUTU AJL “preoy J[OsuNIY OyeUI 
JOAOU ued JoUOSLId Be puke S903 IOAD BUO OU dIOYM “IeTJOO YY 
oy) Mojoq ‘eIodQ oy) Jo Wed poyesap pUe S}OUWOI JSOW otf} Ul 
SI Yor ‘uUOssuNp ,spreUNUTWOD su UI ‘(s¥I Be se dun] WY opeul 
pey ounjiod uvsopuozepy oy) poureys Apredosd ‘Ajqeyoyuio0s 
dn wiry poyoo] J Os ‘oUNSLYD Jo osneseq ‘oyey oy} Aq osnoy 
ou) Ur wy dosy 1,upfnos | Ing ‘oseIsoy ev sem aH ‘ApOeIPOUTUT 
punoIZaaoge Wy oye) 0} JUeM }.UpIp J °° © sas NOA “TOM, 
“UBISIOg 
ou) poyse ,,~Auseyg op jnory yA ouUOp NoA Avy JeYAA,, 
_, UOTe “I 0} You owed | 
‘nok jo woos oddyyg-smnoyT oy) pozes[d p,J USYAA “punosaaoge 
yoqg Nok dye) 0} SUI JOY payed yUouNooIse oY} “TAM © °° OS 
puy jJoy suop asom nod WYSnoy) p.J esnedeq ‘aare [[Hs NOA puly 
0} pastidins sea J pue dyP] SY) OJ Yorq pomoys pey Jovem ou []e 
‘JoJe] SNUTUT B ITE “UTeSIeq IMO opeul 9AQ “F[OSIOY [[PFY 3, Up[NomM 
OS ‘UONPATES [eUIS}O JOY UO I WIOMS P,dYs DoUIS ‘pres sys Jey 
JUBIUI SYS “oJIM SUTAT] AU Sv JOY USS JOAO P,J SUNT) ISH OY) SBAL 
sty} {ojIM peop Aur se Joy uaas skemye p,] ‘Soho Joy Jo stydop ou} 
Ul ‘USD [ILL jafim Sura Aw 9q 0} paytesuod sys Jey) ‘UOTATeS 
[eUI9}9 Joy UO ‘at 0} aIOMS pue Usdo spIM saXa onyq 3Iq Joy WIM 
OUI 0} SWS SUTISIIYD ‘193M SU) JO ssneseq sovTURUL OyI] SUTTTOA 
oom nok JO OM) oY} BTYM—vSoIep ‘ATSSOJD Ud}sI][—INg,, 
"pres Apeorye oA. J 
se ‘gouRly JOYJO SY} YIM oom NOA asnedeq Ip 0} SUIOS aJom NOA 
‘po}sIxo JaZuo] ou Nod ‘Nod Joy sy “ony oyInb sem YyoryM ‘sgoueRly 
OM} PI0U },UpIp sys yey) puR ‘sdI0YD UMO Joy Aq ‘goURTZ Joy 
MOU SBA J UOIdIONs oy) PoUIN) p,sYs ssnedsaq Jey} Joy pO} | Inq 
‘ueul SuNOA JOY SARS 0} SUI pas3oq SYS “UY YIM 9q 0} pousd 


XNOLIT U0JSVL) C97 


Sop 100d & 9WI090q p,] MoUy Ajoyerpourumt ays pue—say pyo} 
J “WUvOW | JY OW poyse ApuSs ays ,‘JourAuR AID 0} SARY ?,u0p 
nox °° * ‘uew SunoA mof aso] nok mouy | ..“yUG Addeyun 
‘Jood, , Wouy 418 & “Vy13 Surppom Aur oq [TIM YE °° “UETY pue : 
J{PSMOA IOF Ht Dye} ‘sty oye) ‘aJOH, ‘pres pue pury SPI] Joy oyur 
W poddyjs | “Sui Surppom wv - - - sem a “7 punoy PJ pur I so] 
P.9Ys ‘304 UOAIS p.] Jey) SuLI pjos ve ‘puey Aw-ur Suu e peu J,, 
jesorep ‘aul SAdT{Oq ‘JOY IOJ SIP o} Apear 
Sop Jood ev Ajuo sem [°° ° puejsiopun nox * °° uo uey) Wooly 
jpuny ku yoo: ays pup .jyxivq Addeyun ‘100g, ‘Aes Jay preoy 
J “Jo0J JOY Je SVM | OTIYAA * * * “STUY 0} DIST] ‘eSorep *‘Ud}sTT,, 
‘PONUTJUOS ay Joye] SUIT} WOYS e puy 
<< {419 OU 39] ING,, ‘WeIsIog ou) 
0} Pres OY ,,“JUSWOUL Sty} 3@ JOU ‘9A SIP 0) SuIos you WJ ‘YO,, 
‘TeYyouLe sty our “Sutuvowl ‘posdejjoo yuq puy 
«<iPHOM oy) UT ssourddey oy) [Je 
OWI OARS NOA “UdSABSY UI POD jJ9q}930) pow ayy * °° ‘our Wim 
" * OUI TaAO * © * SuTATO ‘oarye pokeys oYg joIp 3,upIp oyg jAeMe 
UNI },UPIp ays pure “sIeo} Jay Jo Aue SuIso] wor dooy 0) yseur Au 
JJO YOO} T° * * “PIP | yy 0} UsdjsT] ‘eSorep ‘uajsT] jour UO ‘sIe9) 
yoy “YY © °° “Your Aw oJUT pamoyg UaAs Koy} ‘sake UI UT sIe9} 
UMO AU YM popsurm Aoyy jsieo) sazy “yseu Aur Jopun aroym 
-AIOA9 paMmoyy Asp ‘Jooms atom ou) “UE OIOM AYL jpeoyoioy 
Au—peoyasoy Aut yuo Sutddoup sre9} s0y 3195 | ‘eSolep ‘YO,, 
"Weoy sty you 
0} PoUlads JVY} SSOWJOpUS}) & IPIM sOUITOWIOS puke MOLIOS WIM 
SOUIHOUIOS PSUuBOUT “jsayd Sty UO spueY sty pue Suryeys sropqnoys 
STY WIM “OUM UBUl poyseUr jy} aJOJaq siea} sty yorq pjoy JOU 
P[Nod ueIsIog slp pue “poqqos YY ‘sSury) ssoyy Jo pjo) oy sy 
.]POHO [osue oy] * * * “oYs SBM Os pue ‘eZorEp ‘00) BUTAIO ox, nox 
"BUIAIO * * * 399} OPI JOY * * * JOOF JOY possry | “SUIAIO [QS ‘o0T 
JOY Je TIS} [ “Pow | yet Addey os « - - Addey os semy:* * 7 ‘yO 
"* "Joao" * * ueWOM ou puy * * * ‘Aeme UNI pue oul 0} yseur Au 
MOIY} P[NOM SYS “JOY SSPy OUI JO] JADU P[NOA JoyJOUI s[qQeIOSTUI 
‘Iood Aur ‘royjou AW °° * I °° * [nq Way] MOY MOUY },Ued 
NOX jSUOSWOS ssry 0} poos os sj ‘eBorep ‘YO «°° "yemnjeu 
Apoopied s1am YW JI se ‘our 0} asoqo ‘aioy} SuIpuejs uo jum 
OYs “PEsyosoJ OY} UO “Jey OY] JOY Posty p,] Joye puy jsIp },UpIp 
oys puy /] ‘Joy possry 7 jJoy possry “| pue : * * puy ‘ogouey 
SUIAT & OY] ‘OPT B Inq ‘yYonw Jou—omT] & ouL PpJBMO} peoyasoj 
Jay POAOUT ays yey} ‘esosep ‘oadljaq UdAd | puy °°‘ ‘ou JOJ 


£92 VaddO FHL JO WOLNVHd SHL 


dU} 0} IPeop SI eoUNOUUR O} WITY UO ZuNUNOS sem oY VY} UeISIog 
oy} plod YL Ayeuy puy “soup 08 0} , ure punoqupioU & USye},, 
pey Aoyy yey) pue ‘ssourddey mou) spry prnos ayy aroym 9orid 
Areyjos owWos Ut Way} Aleur 0} ysaLid B puly pue 03 0) popriosp 
pey Aoyy ‘aly SoApOsuoy) Puno} pey gjdood SunoA 0M} oY} se 
UOOS SB VY) WY plo) YL ‘ueIsIog ay) Woy UONsanb e Oo} JomsuB 
UI ‘UOgqH soYys eB pue ‘SoAC[s Jo Med we ‘sjoryoIoypueY Om} 
‘Joy 0} pasuojeq pey 3y) s}oefgo Moy eB pue CI PIM Woy} 49] 
pue [Noey JOJ Woy) UONLIM pey sys) poquiosap aaey J SUAS ot} 
JO ASINOO OU} UI SOUT} SNOLIBA ye UOWLIM pey SUNSHYD Wy) sioded 
OU} [fe :pIOAM ou) UI WNTY 0} JsoJeop sem JeYM WIY pues prnom 
oy Surpovoidde yeop yoy oY UsyM “WY UMOYs B0U0 pey oY 
SSOUPUTY OY) JOF WTY JURY) 0} “EY? WITY Plo} 9H{ “UBISIad OY} SARS] 
0} WSuaNs sty dn pououUNs pue Ulese yseul sty uO ynd oH 
‘pIOM SIY poyqnop savy pyhoo soel uLUUNY 
ou) Jo Joquiow ou ‘Ys yey Yq Suidsom om Suuesy Joye 
‘QUIISLIYD pu NORY JO oe} OY) INoge pamMssvar Ajojo[dWOD sem 
9H ‘suonsonb ou Wry poyse UvIsIog SY], “OTIS [[9J YU puy 
{OOS Yorq ousod [dys ‘osTuoId Joy sdeoy 
ays ji ‘eSorep ‘eZorep ‘yy °° * “SuTAID sem J ATWO ‘arouAue 
ZurkIo 1,UseM OUNSHYD °° * “oyJEs0) yo, Aoy puy “esorep 
‘yoo, 1,U0q jpeoyoroy Aw uo—esolep “Yoo, },uop—peoyosoy 
ay) UO ‘azay ‘OWT ISI OY) IOJ aw possty ays UoY], “WI YM Op 
plnoys sys yy pue Apo AW puly ppnod sys Moy Joy pjo} | “ust 
[[} WOM p,oys BULI pos ou UPIM JoJOes UT au AInq pue “aqlIDg 
ony ou} JO UONSANp oy) ur aye] oy Jo Aem Aq ‘}43TU duo SUIOD 
P[nom ays peop sem | Udy yey} Jeoms Joy opeul J" * “BUI 
Aur pey sunsuys °° * ‘woorpaq oddiyryg-sinoy oy) ul ‘oul 
JO yUOI, UT possTy AY], ‘SUNSTIYD 0} OU MOT[OJ 0} LUTY Plo} puE,, 
‘ponunuos yay ,,“WIYy poay pue ueul BunoA oy} 0} JU9M J,, 
"QOB] S JOSUOU 
QU) SUIIES PIOAR 0} SaLa[IN], Sy} ur soon ay} Jo sdo} oy} 32 YOoT 
0} [NJaIeD sem ay yey) Inq ‘Ay Jo [INF Weoy sty WIM “I pouaedo 
pue MOPUTM oY} 0} JUSM WO) OY Jey} OUT Plo} UBISIog oy, “YSeUl 
STy JJO o¥e} 0} pey pue ZuryoyS sem oy osnedoq WTY 3B YOO] 0} 10U 
UvISI9g SY) WeEM 0} peYy oy Jey) SUONs Os seM UOHOWS SANA 
c« itq Addeyun ‘100g, ‘pres p,ays pue ‘oul 
UJI polio p,oys ng °° * “saderd 0} weoy AUT SuNNS Ajuayes 310M 
J JE S@ SUM FT ‘JeU) Joy poy | VOY," * * CUTZeUT ED noX ‘esorep 
‘Wy °° ° ‘OUI WIM polo p,sys osneseq ‘pesevajd sys JoaouayA 
ueur SunoX Joy AueUl pnoo ays yey—Joy Joy o1p 0} Apear 


XNO0LIT UOISVD p9C 


«¢ PEOP ST YLY,, 
rsonou ATenjigo siuy poyst[qnd anbody 7 ‘1aye, sysom J0IU], 


"OWN Jse[ Oy) JOJ YA Addeyun 
‘Iood uses pey uelsieg OY, “IYSTU ay) OYUT JO SAOIP quo oO], 

.. BIadQ 
ot} OL,, “ISAUp oy} 0} Aes WY pieoy ‘MOpUIM oy) Je SuIpuE)s 
‘UBISIOg SU], “HW OWI 303 YU “SunTeEmM sem qed y “poyyeM 
oy se uy sunioddns ‘yyemoprs oy) 0} WY pormeduiosse snueqg 
pue juownrede sty Jo Joop oy) 0) Yq poMoysS ueIsIog sy]. 

‘Te sem yey) puy 
‘anbodq ,J 1odedsmou oy) Jo 
worses ATBNjIGO oY} UL soNOU B aoR{d 0} sem ay ‘os Op OF ‘sIoded 
pue soljal pesruoid sy} poaresal oy se UOOS sv ajdood SuNOA OM} 


S9C VaddO FHL JO WOLNVHd SHL 


99¢ 

“OISN] JO [osuy 
aU) MOUY OYM UPUIOM JU} JO SuIsuIs st yeodal puepON] oy} Jo 
so0yse ArezI[os oy} Jeoy [IM | Aep owos sdeyiod puy “oun cures 
au) ye poreoddesip oym ‘snuaeA euey JO ose pue ‘ounSsLIyD 
pue [nowy jo sack Sural [Ms sdeyiod oy) Joy ‘elAeuIpuess 
yUgTIS O ‘ABMION O ‘Soxe] MOA punoze Yoo] pue o8 0} ‘uIeH 
yeu} oye) Aeur 00) | Aep oulog ,,"urey punoqyyou eB USye},, pey 
Koy) Aep 9uQ “Weep poureydxoun s,oddytyg junoD Jaye ‘orqnd 
opeul aq 0} poyueM dAvY j0U Prnom Aatp yey) ssoutddey e Aofue 0} 
pLom oy) WoO; UMEIPIVIM pey Ady) osnvd0q pareoddesip pey oun 
-SIIY2) pue [noey Jey} pozifees ouo ou ‘pousddey Ayjeor pey yey 
pouIseUN oUO OU pUR ‘sIDYIOIQ OM} 94) UsaMJoq ATTRAL JO WIOIA 
B U99q DALY O} ples sem OY {UIeSe Iesy 0} JOAOU SBM P]JOM 9U} 
WOYM JO JOSUIS SNOLID}SAUI ‘OUITTQNs yey) Jo aUIODAq PRY IU AA 


jounsny 
ZuTuueYyD pue jooMS Sy) puUe [NORY UsdMJeq [[API 94} popuNol 
-INS pey SoUILIO pue ‘suorssed ‘sorposen yy, * * © SNorssuooun 


punoy MID ZuNYSI] ou) Jo SIoquIowI SoIU) ou) ‘souRIeoddesip $19 
-WJOIG SIy ‘soouRsUINOITID ATeUTpIORNXe YoNs ul Yeap s,AUseYD 
ap junod ‘uoMonpge s,JosuIs oY, ‘seq ul dn pals sejje 
JEU) JUSUID}IOXE 9} JO UONdLOsap Joyjoue JO} poou OU ST BOY], 
‘sAuseyZ 9Y) JO eueIp 
oy) YSnosy) suOTOR STY MOT[OJ K77oUoND4 Wed aUOAUE yeY} sTQeTTEAR 
MOU SI SOUd}ISIX SIY JO DOUDPIAS YONUT OG “poAl] AT[enjoe YUY 
yey) JQnop Aue 9q JoBUOT OU URd aIOy) ‘YIOM SITY} JO ZuruuTsaq 
oy) Je poyeys [ sy “jsoys viodQ oy) Jo AJOjs On) AHL SI HONS 


ansojidq 


Sem oY IYSNoY) oy pue “UdALSY WO 9dI0A B preoy pey oy jl se 
‘WORsIapuny) sem oY 3s YW “yI UoTsonb jou prp oy ‘QUspIJUOd 
S,anseo]Joo sty pue ou sty Jo opeu pey oy osn oy) yoge 
‘SALT XOG Ul “UWITY [[9} SO10A snoLisjskul & preoy AUSI[Og usu 
<< B19dQ 943 Jo 
sileyje oeALid pue orqnd ayy ynoge ssurp Aueu mouy osye Yq “W 
Muy YY pue snonnsiedns sem Ausiog,, (“JaIpunoos aseq k se 
Sauouos pue “pos & se yLIY Jo oyods soumjoulos ueIsieg oy]) 
ce MQ 9A Ayqrporour yey Aq ur uoye) sem oy yonur moy pozi 
“[8ol JOAoU sey AUST[Og,, ‘pres pue Ajon3ea poyrus oy ‘AUSIIOg 
O} JISTA AU JO Sy[NSoI JOSvOU OY] JnOge UeISI9g SY} PO} | Usa AA, 
"(19y00s 
ainsevojd e payed st yeym sem AuBTOg) oy] poeiise Apeolye 
SiY poqinjiod pey *D °C Yonw moy—ZuIy) ure oy} sem sIy} pue 
—MOYs 0} YSnous alam ay) Inq ‘seousjUas po}oouUOOSIp ‘Jouq 
ut ATWO polomsue off “[IAOp oy) Sursos orm oy jl se ow 
2 poYoo, 9H “UTY UO peY ysoys sy) mNOgGe suoNsonb Aw 499]J9 
SY} 30810 JOAU [IM J] ‘oJeIodsap os seM uUOTIpUOD sty yeu} 
UMOUY JOU pey | “‘pequieop siy uo Jsouye seA URW Jood oy 
UsYM SUIT} @ Je AUST[Og IMsIsuOP] 998 pue OF oO} oUT pesin oymM oy 
Sem JJ “Uor}sonb prnoys | a[dood yorym ou pjo} pure UONeULIOJUI 
JO SO9dINOS SUI SABS Ose oF] ‘siIed joIO9s jsoW si JOAOOSIp 
sul djoy 0} apm soy0q & pey aAeY OU pfnod | pue surpying 
ou} JO salTourouT astoaid Aaa pey [MS oy ynq ‘sIeok pue sIeok 
JOJ BIodQ sy} 0} Yoeq useq JOU peY OF “3! pops oy pue ‘Aep Aq 
Aep uonesnsoaur Aur Jo powwoyur wiry yoy ] ° J[PSuITY UeIsI9g ot) 
jo djay ay) wyIM ‘sjooid asoy) a}0[duI09 0} our IPIM pojsar 3 
"yuq Aq posruod soror snoid ou wim waTY 0} 
aul0d pey Aoy) :31 JO sjooid urew ou) pey oy pue ‘In S]OUM su} 
MOUY sUOTe oY 19 “pwoay 9q 0} SLOJo JoyLMy ou opeul oy “JISTA 
8 .9iq Joye “pur uvisiog oY} 0} Ua}st] 0} posnjal pey sorjod ou], 
‘Auod [ensn s,toded oy Jo 3x9}U09 ou) UI 
USOHHM SBM Jey} USAS puy ,,"}sOYys vIodGQ oy) Aq poNTUTUIOD a10M 
SOUS OSOUL,, “S}0IM Jey) suo ATUO aI) sem disso’ a3ejsyorq 
Tre YIM rerprurey Jodedsmou y ‘oeeq ounstyD pue Jayjo1q sty jo 
souvseoddesip oy) puv Jopinul s Auseys op juno JO} o[qisuodsaz 
SUM [PUTUILID SnONSUOU jeYyM SULIOPUOM PonuTUOD pur ‘{19}sAUT 
oy) dn Jeajo 0} usy) pue Mou porn [IMs ssaid ou) ‘seYsIseUl Surur 
“Wex9 of} “OMe INSISUO|] JO SHOJJS JUOST[JOUTUN oY) 0) syUeY) 
“peafosun ‘pouopueqe sem oseo oy) Joye ou Suo] e 107 


L9C VusdO FHL JO WOINVHd dHL 


i°D ‘O Jwap Aw 
‘gq8e noX },U0q ‘][9M spus yey) JOM s.]fe puy ‘uoruldo 
sTy aeys 0} payuosuos | ‘JoyyNy Aue JoWeU sy} onsind 
jou pue yorq Aouowl oy} Sues WIM poljsnes oq pnoys 
OM yey} UOTUTdO oy) possoidxa ATayBIPSUTUUT pIeYyOTYy -Asvoq} 
jeoseueul oy) Woy SuNoenxo AynyAeyd pue Ajiesodurs) ut 
pepesoons pey oy yey) AouoUl Jo wns o8re] Joyjes OY} JO [Te Sul 
-UTeJUOD pue YUT Pel UE ,.°D ‘OC WOl,, SPIOM ay} Suriesq odo] 
-QAUd Ue YSop S,preyorY UO punoy om ‘oouvseoddesip s,seeq 
sUTSUYZ Joye shep Moy B “BUTYAIOAD WTY []9} 0} SO1ZJO INO Ul 
plod INstsuoy] WIM JUoUNUTOdde ue opeul pey am USyM ysnf 
Jo} “II OJUT WYBNoIg Useq pey ATessTUIUIOS aorjod ou} usyM pue 
Aguoul yonur os 4soo pey i uoym Aqfersodsa ‘ayol [eonoeid 
Aue 0} SJTU] JOM 919Y) JeY} Poploop savy JSNUI off “OUT JOJ 
‘jTUIpe JsNUT | ‘pue ondea]]Oo Au Jo} posned pey sy afqnoy ot} 
[je Joy dn oper oy yo" o[qou ouO YIM yey) ‘AToUeU “o1DY SUIT} 
guo Ayuo Aes [JIM | ‘SIoulow say) Jo SuTUUTZaq ou) Je poquios 
-op sAeYy [ SWIYM ppO ssoyM Jo sWOS ‘*D “QO sulUII0U0D 


swonsonb 
UI oSessed oy} SI S10] “pus ue 0} OUTED souRIY PURSNOY} 
Ayuam) ATyyuow! ay) Jo ssouIsng oy) yorum ut Kem ajduits ou} 
aquosap Aay) asnevoaq ysosO}UT Jetoads Jo Ose aIB Soul] eSOUL, 
‘qed puoses oy} UT JSOYS 9Y} 0} BJOASP PIP UlULBYUOW] Jey} 
SOUT] MOF OY? JNoge AT[NJorwo yYsnoy) | Jl IWesye soyM sup} 
jo uoneurfdxo oy) puly pynom | yey) out Plo} “J[EsuNTY Wot} 
USNUM pey oy JI Se [JOM SB SHOWOUI esOYy} MOUY OYM “UBISIOg 
dU “Wed puosss oy) UI Woy) ynoge SuIOU JsOUNTE pres 3nq 
‘sSulop §,°D ‘O jo JuNoode sjo]duUIOD eB Yons OARS UTULIEYOUOP] 
sa8vuppy v fo snowap sty jo wed JsIj ou) ur Jey) ostid 
-Ins passeldxa pue sJossooons nay} jo oyods ucy) | ‘AUSI[Og 
pue suudIgqod jnoge OW pio} URISIOg 9Y} WYM SEM YL 
‘Wisy) ZuIsnuTe JOA yNOYIM US} 
ponZinul pey yey) UOTeNIIS B JO PLT 9q 0} pels pue jorjol Jo ysis 
Ziq ve SUIAvOY ‘sIoseuRUT }xoU DY} 0} ATo}sAU s[OYM 9Y} UO passed 
Ay, “SUOON]sUI Jo YOo JeNZuls e YoNs Woy} USAIS pey O4M 
‘C}) ‘OQ adues yey} ynoge sow Aue UTeZ] 0} SuUIAT} NOM 12] 
yjoq Ady} ‘sUOseoI sNOLIeA JO} sioseueUl Zuloq Jo pom Apealy 
‘Jg[TeUTYyOR]G & JO SUITJOIA alam UUSIGed] pue sy yey) pozi[eas 
Ayyeuty ay ‘Aououl Joy WY poyse sd10A oy} UY “Uat} -pouuep 


XNOAIT] 4004S) 99Z 


69FF] 
up Aq asnoy ou ul sunydumpsy uENe UO Sty JO 21008 snoweEy ot) pury Aur 
om Jomoya ABs ued OM “IsHE ofquredwooul ue seM HII yey) Jqnop Aue oq 
Jasuo] OU Ud sIDY], ‘samseay [eoIsnur oq [Ns Avu oJ9q} YOM ul ‘oyRy] om 
Aq ssnoy at) puly 0}—s}0JZo MO AuT Jo BORBUTUNSUOD ot) 9Q PINOA STU) pue 
—ATessooou SI 31 ‘os Op OL ‘WOREpUNo} pros B uO YU Jo Alo}s 3q) Ysttquiso 
pue 3soys oy) Jo pussay ay) 0) pud ue jnd 0} JUOUTIOAOg oy) Jo Ajnp oy) 
Sem Jf Jey) WY pjo} | pue sdoy ouios ow aves oF “Yoo sm) Jo vonerorqnd 
oy} aojaq Shep om) ATUO ‘uOHeNSIUTUIpY sy oUL] 2y} JO Aveyoioosiapuy) 
SuTuUeYO Ino ‘ZjoumMeog-urpref{ng Insisuopy rm Jolqns yey) possnosip ,. 


Ise] 12 PIP | ‘(,OP 0} UOHENsturUpy sy oul] oY) poyse sou 
TRISABS OARY J SB “PoUTeIp SIOM Oye] OY} J punoy oq AjIsea pynoo 
Hf yey} GMS We T ‘OS USAS) SodURQUD }OI00S SI [JB Poyoo]q pey 
Yq esnessq sxe] oy} Aq osnoy oy) pury 0) sqeuUN sem | OTT 
‘apud ureyso 
B oye) Apsnf ueo | YoryM UT soLoaoosIp yueyodult [eIoaos Aq 
PoyeJOgoL0S are Aoy} Jey) UMOUY 9q 0} 3 OFT pfnom | pue eisdO 
9} JO SOATYSIE 94} UF Way} ddeTd 0} SuIOS UTE | “sOUD)STXo S.jso4s 
dU} JO sousprAs ATeyUUINSOp aIMNsUOD asoy} [[e—soUUaIOANOC] 
JW WWOWISINSI Ul SAI] MOU OY ‘T][AI0G ey] Aq pue ‘(Aeme possed 
Ajayeunyiogun sey An ourepey poos om) jfasiey Say opty Aq 
‘UTULTeYOUOY] pue pIeYoTY JO sJoyesogeEljoo Jau10g Aq our 0} speur 
SJUSUISIEIS “oeBC SUNSHYD jo oso) ‘sioded s,ueisiog uy, 
“g0R]d yoo) 
Ayjesx ysoys oy 0} paynqume sjoe ayy yey) soUaprAS 9[qeruspun 
yonur Os pul} 0} pojoedxe jou pey yf “AlOjORJsHeS ApoozIod 
SOM UOHeSHsoaut AU JO synsox oY) yey) Jopeor oy 119} Mou 
TEM J pue ‘oun pey | se uoos se ouads oy) oJe3NSOAUT pynom J 
UeIsIog Oy) posmuoid | “Sumpou Joy ,,sloopdey Jo Joao] 9u},, 
Pel[eo Useq 10U peYy YA wy) pur ur Suyseeq ‘ooyjo [eUAseuCU 
oyp UF AJoysAwW oy} 0} Aoy oy pu ATams pmnom J ‘j[osAur yWOpIoUr 
SY) JO ouddS OY} Je , YIOM,, pue OF 0} poem I Jt ye Inq ‘TreVep 
THE Jey} oyUT sus Jou pey oy Jey) palomsue oy] ‘urd Ajoyes ou} 
Jo oyds ut joyood s.preyory wo ystuea souely puesnoy) Aju0M} 
oxeU 0} pesn pey yoys oy} YOU yeYM ueIsIog oy) poyse | 
‘wy Uo poXesd useq pey 
Jey} Soyol [eoHOvId [eIOAVS Joy UDAd 303 0} BYE ‘DH ‘O s[OUM ou} 
sunooouos Aq jjesuIrY posnue pey UMUIBYOUOFY BY} SUTADTIOG 
poddojs Joaou preyory pue ‘Joumny jo osuas eorosey s preyory 
JO WINSIA oY} Us9q pe oy SUI B JOJ Jey) SAST[Iq 0} ‘pouIMar sem 
Aaguoul oy} Joye ATpetsedso ‘asmoo jo ‘ponunuos ummeyouoy 


697 VaddO FHL 4O WOLNVHd JHL 


Zurm0o puey e ouIseuN Ayiseo ued | yoy Ysnomp sutusdo 
ue sjesouod pue ‘xoq & JO pl] oy) oyI] UMOp pue dn poAoul 
oq ued 3ey) Joopdey e ‘ULIeaIOJ eB UeY) JadUO, OU pue preOg 
-JOO]J & SB OPIM se JoOpden ev :JTeYyOULIE oY} WoIJ SOYOUT Mof B 
‘QO1JJO [eLoseueUl JY} UI “J[OSWTY JOJeQsTUTUIpe oy}? JO JOT 
UI SyeUI 0} JQe SeM J] SUO OU} JOJ SOLIOAODSIP sso} [fe spen 
pinom J 3nq ‘esadQ oy ox] Surpying w Jo ArojsAUI oy) UT poyealo 
DABY ISNUI YL OY] UeUT ONseJURJ ‘snoIsIpold eB yey YIM UOs! 
-JedwW10d Ul SuTyJOU st ‘poyono} pue uses savy J YO ‘sip [TV | 
"SYS 
snozoues sty Joy 9AI3 pue ATID ouepey] WIM soUapuodsalI09 
snousjsXul sty uo Aled 0} JsOYys oY} 9[QeUD 0} PaJOMOT pue 
pastel oq prnos yey} aINjydynos Jo so0Id ay} SULIOAODSIp Aep ouros 
jo adoy savy | ‘SSUTATEO S}COLQUI YIM PoyeIOdap ST Jeyjid oul 
_/8SOYd oy 
JOAIOUM WOIJ SUIOD Bd10A SITY SYLUI prnos ‘ysmnboyLnuea e Surleq 
‘yLI osnedeq ‘UONIeNIp oysoddo 9y) WoL SUUOD 9q 0} Poules 
}I OPISUT DOIOA dU} Jey) PU s[qQIeUI PIJOS JO IpeU oq O} sreodde 
JI yey) Joquisutas ‘OAL XOg Ur ssuTuddey om SuLMp 71 0} pour 
9uo ou yey} postidims ose nod J] “W Spisul USUI OM} JOF WOOT 
ysnous sey Je[pid oy) Joy ‘aro WoIZ SWIOD SABY P[NOD dIOA 
s,JSOUS 34) Jey} voOpr oy) ye pestidins 9q JOU Op “Jey JOYE 
puy jMoyoY spunos seqid ayy yey) puly [Ts noA :peoy mod jo 
Stroy oy 0} dn uajsi] pue IsIy MOA Je. oUvd InoA WIM W UO 
yoouy ‘xoq o3e}s ou) Woy xoq JeU) SuNneIedes IeyId snowoUS 
oy) UO YOouY pue ‘aaLy xog oyut o3 ‘opms pidnys ve yNoUpIM 3ul 
-pjing 9u) ysnomp weOs 0} UOTssTUIed yse “Aep oUOS eiodO oy) 
WSIA,, ‘UOHRoNSN! [AJ HIM “Jopeal oy} 0} Kes ueo | ‘Ayeuty 
‘sloopdey 
Zurpys Ayjeyozoy Ayuo asn oy ‘spueyese}s BiodOQ 9y) 0} 
umouyuN uajsks Zunoaid e fq yom yey} sIoopden om) pesojo 
pue pouedo | ‘sel[s90 ply) pue jsiy oy UT “asIMod jo ‘arou) 
dois jou pip [ ‘Aepoy ajqista Apoosiod [pps ome sioye, e4L 
jAuSeYD Op [Hoey {JUBOTIUSIs jou WY} ST “DO “UY sired stu} 
SEM STenIUI soy} Suowre pue ‘aloy) pouostiduit aJam OYA 
ajdood Jood oy) jo owos Aq sjjem Ss} UO poqlosul sjenrut Aueul 
Mes [ UOOSUNP ,spleuNWUIOD oy) UT “eedO oy JO sIBTJIO ot} 
OUT UMOP JOM [NORY pue UvISIOg SY} YOIYA ysnomy} Joopdey 
oy) punoj osye J pue ‘soovjd oulos Ul sadoid 0} SUTT[ey st 
]jea Uapoom asoym ‘adessed yaloos ,SpIeUNUIWOD) 24} JOAOOSIP 


XNOLIT U0jSVr) OZC 


"Iamod 
years PY SY SYUOU! [eIOADS JO aloYyM ‘eISIOg 0} WY WYSnoIg 
°H “AU JO yorwss ul JJO 08 0} palaplo sem eSorep oy) Udy], 
‘uBJapusze] JO esolep ay} Aq pouonsonb pue sovjed ay 0} 
WYSNOIg SEM JURYSIOUMI oY], U9) Sy Ul Uses peY oy slop 
“UOM 3} poquosep ‘polJOsAON TUYZIN WoI pueyeuIes 0} AemM 
SY UO “JURYSIOU INF YW “Wopalog Wo ZuLayyns sem ‘oyWOAR] 
S.yeys oY} “euEI[Ns s]NIT oy) aIoyM ‘ooejed uvJopuozep ou} 
poyovar uoneyndar sty MOY sem JY], “vIsy 0} yorq Kem oy 
[[@ SUBAvIeD UT jnOgE payfe} som yey) syoU o1Sew surzeure 
PIp pue wisinbojiuaa ut [NYS sty pamoys oy ‘Buns JoAO sey 
P[JOM 9} UI as[o ouO OU se SuIsUIs Apeore sem of] ‘AIO[S 
Snoopry sty [je Ul Suruoyiod ‘rey poJOZAON TUYZIN sy) 3B UDeS 
SBM OH ‘SINISgO Joye poureulol ofl] sty JO potted sjoym vy 

‘saisdXy oy) Suowe :o13eu pue ye Jo Suuds 
“[]9% oY} 38 URIOIseU & pUe IsIe Ue se SUTUTeN sIy pojofdu09 
pue Iiey 0} Mey woJy sodomy pessois savy ysnu apf ,.“asdioo 
SUIAT],, & SB WIY poyuasoid oyM UBUIMOYS & UDI “‘surey ye JpasuITY 
PovQIYXS SY SUIT} & JO “Ieay pue JoLOY WWM WY prear uIOy} 
Spell ssoUT[sn sty sioyM ‘asnoy ,sjuored sty wo Aeme uel oY 
ose Ajreo ue JY “J0}9eUOD ATUOSeUI B JO UOS oy) Sem pUe USNOY 
TeOU UMO} OI] B Ul WIOg sem YI ‘UvISIOg oY} 0} ZuIpIO.oy 
<< punoiganoge 
suryyAioaa dn uoals pey oy ‘oveq ouNsuyD Aueur 0} uejd 
sty dn uoAls pey off “OWN Jey) ye HW pooU },UpIP ay asneI0q 
UTULTeYySUOW pue preyorYy 0} souely puesnoy) AyoJ oy) pou 
“Ol OH “OANBIONT AOA UdYJO pue oTsIe AIOA SOUINOUIOS 310M 
yey) skem Ul sBulaq ueUNY iOrdxe 0) ‘ssour[3n Apseys sty Joy 
uonesusdwios & se WIY USAIS pey ammjeu yoIyM ‘uoneUTseUT 
pue Ajiio}xep Jo syjIs Areurpioenxo sty pasn sy pue sojdnios 
Aue Aq polopury },usem oy ‘oor ueuINY ou) Spisino sem oy 
yey) SuTjoa,j “AouOW popseu YLIG,, ‘polomsue oy , ,j[[e 38 ION,, 
<<@SUOTONSUT JO 
yoo yey} sIaseuew oy} sas oy Uy Suryol AjUO yLUIY sem “yoRG 
ouled soueIy puesnoy} AWOJ oy) 90UTS,, ‘WY poyse | ‘uonOWS 
s[qepue}sIapuN YUM ‘UeISIog 94} 0} SIY) jNOGe ayods | UU, 
‘pouinjel ‘ATeIpsuiejur 
ue jo pre oy} WM ‘puke Yor, souely puesnoy) Ayo oy) YyoryM 
ysnomy} Surusdo oy) st yey, * * * ‘JOOTZ ay) SuTYSNO} 3209 porTe} 
-MOTTEMS B JO JoySOd JOMOT 94} OUT A[sNOJA}XOp Yoel 0} INO 


TZe VdaddO AHL dO WOLNVHd SHL 


YSIyIN], SPT OY} Joye sovyed Ysory ZIP[LA OY) UI puNoj oFOM Je} 
saxoqsuoNs snoLojskU pue ‘sIaquieyo yosdes ‘sIoopden snourej 
oy) [je WInq oy YyU_ sem yW yey) Aes ATUO poou |] “SIOLI3} JO 
syos jye Aq payuney USIOIOAOS & 0} JopUdI p[NOd SY SOIAJES OU} 
JO vopr Ue SAIS OF “URIS oY) Aq poAojdute sem oY SIO M ‘oid 
-OUTURJSUOD 0} Udy) pue IJOUTY BISY 0} JUOM oY “YY JOF SV 
"sleg Ul SATT 0} JUOM 
oy ‘Ainsvay uvisiog oy} Wor sjuoWAEd ATUJUOUI UT SUOSUT [[eUTS 
B UDAIZ sem oy ‘JOAOMOY ‘A[TUBY [eAOI OY} JO JOQUIOUI & SBM Of 
gout *“Ayadoad sry [fe Jo ssoy ou) pue oprxo Aq poystund sem nq 
uoTNndsexa podedoso esosep SY], “YY 0} pesuopeg pey IY} Soyjo[o 
UI WI passoip pey eSorep oy) JO SpuoLy Joye Ss yLTY se Jjo possed 
Ayjnyssooons sem ‘spriqeas Aq usjyeo-jyey ‘Bag ueidsed oy} jo 
QI0Ys sy} UO puNoy sem yey) osdJoo e ‘WIY JOF ATF|ON'T “oy1] UMO 
SY YIM SSOUYBIM snosoues yey) Joy pred Apreou oy ing “adeose 0} 
SuBOUT ou) WTY SuIAIs Aq WY poaes esorep sy, “Ysne] WY opeu 
USd}JJO pu SIOARJ MOJ & WITY SUOpP peYy FWY “UOrstoop s[qeuTUMoge 
yey} Jno Surkues YIM posreyo sem uvlapuszepy Jo esoJep OY], 
‘sIOpJO SITY Jopun poyJom 
pey oymM uoUr ou) [je YIM Suoye “po[[hy YY eaey 0} poprosp 
ap ‘sovyed snorpuom oy} Jo s}aIses oY} MOUY BUOSUIOS “ArT SBM 
YU se Suoy se yey pue ‘UsToJOAOs JoJoUR Joy so1jIpo AeuTpI0e} 
-xo Ayjenba ue ping [[Ms P[noo FU “pulfq Wars “yey} Poyojjol 
ay usy} Ng ‘INO ynd 9q soko UApjod S.yU_ Jey} poropso af -Mod 
-sofy ul osenbs poy uo yoyo e& jo yo}HOIe JwRTTUQ stp 
pyeMo} JOIARYSq $,JeZd UIeYIDD B Jo sdwexe oy} PIMOTIOJ 
oy ‘W938 sIy) Jo woTssessod Ul J[asWTY punoJ YeYs oy} USGA 
“IQAODSIP 0} J[QISsodull sABAA 
ut seoddesip pue ‘uoos Zutoq woYIIM sovyed sIy UT azoymAue 
08 pynoo Aysofeyl SIFT Jey) SnoTUSsUT Os sem ‘sUTZ0S WH “INST 
ay) pue ‘os pip off ‘pury yey) Jo covyed e pjing 0} WIY palep 
-JO YeYs oy) ,,‘xOq o1deUI,, & JO SATSOUOD IYSTUL Joyey3Ipynsoid 
e se ooejed e JO poAls0UOD puke sIMMDOITYONe UI svop! [eUISLIO 
AyySty pey YU soulg “Alojs s,uvisiog oy} UI posdunys sary 
OM YOIYM ‘UBIopuazeyy JO sINOY AsOY oY} JO SUI OY} SEM STU], 
‘WY 0} BUDA] e Yoo) YyeYs oY] ‘sTIduIa oy) UIA Jem je Sem OYM 
‘uesTueYsyy JO IW oy} sUTese SUONUSAUT [eoT[oqetp sty pesn 
pue suoneutssesse [eontjod jo sJoquinu e ut wed yoo} Ajwyes 
OH “SUOIM puUe IYSLI US0MIOG SOUDIAJJIP 94} MOUY 0} JOU pouoas 
ay JO} ‘ou yey) BULIMpP sJoLIOY May Be oyINb Jo AyIns sem oH 


XNOAJT U0jSV‘) CLC 


‘ajdounuejsuo; 
pesajue eByIUOTeg wo sdoon Joye Aep ay} uo uv aT jo yepuod 
-Sali09 yerseds oy) 0} anes Aog Wy pourueYyoR, Jey) MoTAIOIUT OW) 99S 


‘posruold pey ous 
se “Wy SulAIng s10Jaq JoSUIJ sty OJUO 1 paddys pue outs A[ps 
“3qnopun pey seed sUuNsLYD “alom oy SUL pjos oy) Aq ynq ‘aun 
suo] & peop useq savy Aoy) uoym AIBN ore uOUT ITE Jo] “proy 
SITY JO ssoul[sn oy} Aq OU WIY poztuZodal | “UOJS[DYs B 0} poonpal 
wseq pey osdioo sy “poling 3uIoq oom spiocel ydeisouoyd 
roy aovjd oy) ye punois oy) Woy uoye) arom Aouy ucym Aep 
JOYIO OY} SUTBUTOI sTY JOAO poXead | Jey) ‘oms yb ‘ams ue | 

Eve} 
se A[Sn se weUul & oyeU poy pip AYA ‘WITY UO KorOUr oARY 0} poy 
poyse pue suTeUoI sIy JOAO podeld | ‘sous sty Jo ayids uy 

‘ysoyus 
viedo oy) Ayd ysnut om ‘uoy) ‘ApTes[D ‘JeTJa9 & WM jUd}009 
oq 0} pey oy pus oY) UI pue ‘pyOomM ay} Jo andulo ay) ploy o} 
ysnous yeoId yreoy & pey 9} “20eI URUNY aU) Jo sIoquIOU ys9]qou 
oy} JO uo Us0q sARY plhom oy ‘adRy ATeUIpJo ue YM ‘uoyA 
‘UM syorn Aejd Jo sntuas sty spry o} Jou pey oy “ATS 
00} SEM 3Y ING “os]a SUOAIOAD SY] SUOSUTOS oq 0} ATUO poyse 
®H (uly asind om pfnoys {uy Ayid om prnoys jy Addeyun 
“100g “AIO}s ony JOA JIqIpaIoUr sfoyM sIyy ut WorduAT st W “sor 
oy} ssond ued pue ‘paMmoT[oy JeYM JO JSOUT SMOUY JOpeal dU]. 

"Soho 
UBUINY WOIJ JOABIOJ WITY Opry prnom yey owoY e ‘pylom oy) 
JO }Sai SY} 0} UMOUYUN sWIOY & J[OSUITY Joy Suyvaso Jo poureaip 
oY pue ‘IoAo se ATBN se [INS sem OFT “JO oy} O} OWRD oZmMeE 
jor1sou pue ‘feoIswTYy ‘ONsHIe sty ‘Ioyeat JseA yey) JO sTE_IO 
OY} Ul JJOsuTY punoj oy UoYAA ‘BodgO oy Jo suOHEpUNo] oy 
UO YOM UTED JOJ jOVUOS B UO pIq AT[NJssooons oF] ‘syoug Areu 
“IpJo WIM sasnoy AreUIpso yINq OYM JoO}DeHUOD ATeUTpIO Ue Sy] 
“IO}DENHUOS & BUIBIIQ OH ,,9S[9 SUOAIOAD OYH],, BUOSWIOS BUIODAq 
0} payuEM oY “ofl, SnONsUOW pue ‘o[QeprwuJO} ‘snommjusApe sTy 
JO poly “usyy, ‘s8ul) Auew 00) Mouy oY :BIsIog WO 90]y 0) pey 
pey oy uoseal oules oY} JOJ URNS OY} OAvaT O} peYy ATTeINIEU OEY 

‘Ioyjoue 
ur daojse Ayjenjoe sem oy uoyM oovjd ouo UT ayeme sem oy 
easl[oq e[doad opeu yey) ‘wy Sul[quiosox APoexe pue ueyns oy) 
OX Pessasp “ByeWONe speuT OYM ,o4 OSTe sem IT ‘UOTNJOAAL 


ELC VaadO FHL AO WOLNVHd dHL 


‘uo}a[oys AreUIpIO OU SI 3 ‘oIsnA] Jo AWopeoy [euOneN 
oy} JO SoATyOIe oy) UI ssUOTIq 3sO4s BiedQg sy) JO UOJOTOysS 
oy) Jey) UTeyUTeUT [ joAeIs s.todned e Ul poling 9q jou [IM Hf 
AJaING {UOJITOYS JeUp YIM DUOp 9q 0} Zurlos st yey ‘MOU puy 

‘godQ sy) JO sIeTjao oy} OUT Joy Surye} Joye sue 
ZuI[qUIAN STY UT seeC] SUNSIIYD snofssuoouN at} ppoy ISM SIS] 
Jo Josuy ou) cIOyM ‘UTeyUNOJ OPI] OY} JBOU Av] WO}JO[SYS YL 


XNOAIT UO0jSVS) PLC 


"sono IoUIM oBueyo 0} 190[qns Arpiqepeae pur ssoug 
“AZDATTOP JOJ SYOOM XIS O} INOJ MOTTE OsedTg 

16Z-ED 
TT 88. omer 
ssaIppy 
SWAW 


‘aseotd s°q°Q'2 JO ysed ou ‘Iapio 
Aguoul Jo yooyo pusg *(Suypuey pue oBeisod 19n00 019¢°7$ ppe aseoqd) 
~~ —~¢ Sutsojoue we | “aaoge payooyo saey ] SWOIT OI OUI puss oseoTg 


91009 TI ‘soujelg soq ‘peoy Jloy Iseq PLp ‘e1D ‘Ideq ‘syoog wejuRg 


J@PJO O| @Bod SIU @sN JO B10JsxOO INOA JO WOU; JO} 4007 


G2CS MauDs SHLJONUNLAHL é6S0LZ O 
G6'es AQVIV JO LIVALUOd Z7Liz O 
SFIVL NVRIOLDIA 
ORAS UAHLO 8 TOUVD SVWISRIHD VW preLe O 
OS'ZS LSIMLYSANO ZOLl2 O 
G6'ZS SANIL AUVH 9LOl2 O 
OS'Zs SAID OMLIJO FWLV 9ZLIZ O 
G6'ZS SNOUVLOAdXS IVINO =CpelzZ O 
G6'VS AG3TADIN SVIOHSIN S9ZLZ OO 
G6'VS ASNOH AVIIG ~=S22le O 
GO'PS © SUadVd AOIMAD Id SHL ~ESllLZ O 
SUSASIT SSPOUD AC Soil 
ORAS gjuolg AWA SIHSIFH ONRISHLAM §$8SZLZ OO 
GZ'SS 91U01g SHOUOUD FAUZ INVES OVLLZ O 
SQpUSIg SU AC SoH 
‘einspejd Bulppe! 


UMO INOA JO} SOISsKID PS|sej-OLU] seu JD JUDM |_NOA 
HEYS{OO INCA O} sUCIIPPD PNoid eq jIIM syooq peubisep 
AINJUNDEQ esey] “OUUI} JO se} OU POOJs EADY JOUI syOoq 
—OIN{OJEfI sejDei6 s,PYOM eUL NOA Buy sossHID WjUDg 


“2dHou InoyWA Vueyo 07 oofqns AyTQeieae pure ssoUg 

“ATWO ‘S‘f) Ut poo’ Joyo odey ‘AIDATIOp J0j syOOM XIS 07 INOJ MOTTE osesIg 
16/2-OldVa 

SAID 


ssaIppy 
SAW 


(‘ATuo WSf Ur poo’ rayJo adez) ‘oseayd s°q'—'D JO yseo ou ‘IOpi0 

Asuoul Io Yoyo pusg “(Zurppuey pue oBeisod 12009 0) OC-Z ppe ose0]d) 
~_ $ Sutsopoua we | ‘aAoge poyooyo oaey | swoI oy) OU puas oseo[g 
91009 ‘TT ‘Suleid S9q ‘peoy JOD 1seq PTY ‘OldVa “3deq ‘syoog wejurg 


— ES as Ce ee ese aise Gee eee see ae eee eee eee wee ees eee 


S6rl$ ‘SUIWOBL P-ZELSP 
smey uos!IM Aq SMOWD NW3d Gaa 3HLIWIHM 0 
S6vl$ ‘SUIWOBL 6-991SP 
suing uuy anliO Aq 3341 ASSVS G10) 0 
S6vl$ ‘“SUIWOBL %-960SP 
Aosuo> ¥d Aq $3011 40 3ONIWd SHL OO 
sewoys preysiy Aq paulsoss2d 
S6vl$ ‘SUIWOSL S-66LSr 
uayy ueof Aq 3SWHD ASHONOTIIM dO SJATOM IHL O 
S6vL$ ‘SUIWOBL G6-EBLSr 
YD |!d apunwesoy Aq SyaIwgIS TISHS FHL O 
aneaspay wud] Aq pausoyisg 
SEVIS ‘SUIWOBL Z-POLSr 
auunq xluiwog Aq $n 311 aIdO3d OF 
noe, us] Aq powuojiag 
S6vI$ ‘“SUIWOBL B-LLZSPr | 
sauunH uaydais Aq, IHOINGIW 340498 AVG JHL 0 
oosog dig Aq pauuoyi3g 
S6°L$ ‘SUI OO F-9FLSP 


suaPiq sayy Aq JOYVD SVWISIBHD VO 
Pngparp uyof aig Aq pauusoyiag 
SEVL$ “SUIWOBL L-EOCSP 
poomiy jerefsew Aq 3A3S,1LV 0 
ueZIHPN ae) Aq pouso0yi9d 
SEVL$ “SUIW OBL L-OSLSP 
ueWAay UepeUof Aq YILVIHL SYIHILNG IHL O 
Aajsdury uag Aq pouuojiag 
:suajjasjsaq Sunioxa sow s,Aepoy jo 
alWOS JO sJUaWAaSpUe s,oIpny WeyUeg UO panded s! syaWOpad 
[Nyajsew JayjJO pue sewoYy peydiy ‘aaeiZpay uUA] ‘nole 
ua] ‘ujuneg Apuew ‘Aajssuly uag ‘pnijain uyof ss jo we ayy 
i341 OL SHOOE LVIAD ONIN SYOLIV LVAD 


“sonoU ynoyIM oSueyo 0 ;olqns Aypiqepear pur s2oug 
"AISAT[OP JOJ SOOM XS 07 INOJ MOTE OFBSTT 
t6-Z1D 
eo omega 
ssoIppy 


SAAN 


‘aseatd s‘q"Q'D 30 yseo ou ‘Zapz0 
AduUOUL JO YoY pusg *(Zuypuey pue oBeisod 29000 03 0S'Z$ Ppe oseo]d) 
~——~¢ Sutsopous we | ‘onoge POYSYS SABY | SUI9;t OY} OU pus OSeOTg 


91009 “II ‘soured s9q ‘peoy JOD 3seq PIP ‘71D ‘3daq ‘syoog wejurg 


G6'P$ SOLUNG JEPUDXEIY 
OISIXD JINOW JO INNOD SHI oselz O 

SLLS eUDID ueydes 
JOVANOD JO IOaVE GIa HL L1OLZ O 

0S'Z$ UOPUO] YOO ONV4 ILIHM 
BS CIMIHLIOTIVD 3HL ¢ezizZ O 
G6'7$ SINS UDWIEH AYSIGAGOW LLClZ O 
G6'Z$ SIA UDWWEH Gand ATA Péziz O 
SSISSHID [HSIS TOUS 
GZ'ZS NOSIIMGV3HN.GGNd ssliz O 
GZ'2$ YIdNWd FHLGNV JONINd SHL 9SZLZ OO 
0s'z$ IddISSISSIN SHLNO 34M 6pelz O 

S6'Z$ 1UNOD S.ANHLaWY OND! 
NI33INVA INDUOINNOD V ¢erllzZ O 
G6'S$ SHIUOIS IWOHS UFIWNOD Séliz O 
G6'L$ YIAMVS WOLJO SFININIAGWY EZLIZ O 
Oo 


G6'LS NNId AdaagsTIONH 40 SANLINSAGV 64012 


‘einsDe|d Bujppe! UMO JNOA JO} sojssDID pejse} 
“OULU, SSO [ID JUDM |],NOA *JJeysJOO INOA oO} sUOIIPpPDO 
Ppnod eq |IIMsyOog peubjsep Ainjynoegq eseu ‘seoud Mo} 
AjjO|Decs JO—OLUY JO JSE} EU POOJS EADY JOU syOOg—elN} 
-D1e4|| jseyoes6 s,pyom eu, NOA Buyiq sojssEID WDjUDg 


FNTAM CLASSIC * A BANTAM CLASSIC * A BANTAM CLASSIC * A BANTAM CLASSIC *« A BANTAM CLAS 


The Phantom of 
the Opera 


Gaston Leroux is one of the originators of the detective 
story, and THE PHANTOM OF THE OPERA is his tour de force, 
as well as being the basis for the hit Broadway 
musical, A superb suspense story and q darktale 
of obsession, PRANTOM has thrilled and entertained 
audiences in adaptations throughout the century, 


This new translation—the first completely modern and 
Americanized translation—unfurls the fy|| impact 
of this classic thriller for modern readers. It offers a more 
complete rendering of the terrifying figure who 
emerges from the depths of the glorious Paris Opera 
house to take us into the darkest regions of the 
human heart. After the breathtaking performance of the 
lovely Christine Daae and her sudden 
disappearance. the old legend of the “opera ghost’ 
becomes a horrifying reality as the ghost strikes out with 
increasing frequency and violenceé—always with 
the young singer at the center of his Powerful obsession. 
Leroux has created a masterwork of love and 
murder—and a tragic figure who awakens our deepest 
and most forbidden fears. 


This is the only complete, unabridged modern 
Americanized translation available. Lowell Bair is the | 
acclaimed translator of such Bantam Classics as MADAME 
BOVARY, LES LIAISONS DANGEREUSES, and CANDIDE. 
X0C0016MR5 


The Fhantom of the 
Used - Very Good 


IMWIIR7 4 S9a994 E84 Q4 


Opera (Bantam Class 


-0.01) 86510-14 Wee Ni) 


N 0-553-2137b-8>>459 


