SUPVX1::OPA0:,SYSTEM        System going down in five minutes...please log out...
%DELETE-I-RMS  Deleting all files in this account...hit ^Y to terminate.
A computer will play with your mind today.
A gift of flowers will soon be made to you.
A king's castle is his home.
A lie in time saves nine.
A lost ounce of gold may be found, a lost moment of time never.
A man who turns green has eschewed protein.
A plucked goose doesn't lay golden eggs.
A present, over which you will shed tears of joy.
A truly wise man never plays leapfrog with a unicorn.
A vivid and creative mind characterizes you.
A wise man sees more from a mountain top than a fool from the bottom of a well.
Alimony and bribes will engage a large share of your wealth.
Among the lucky, you are the chosen one.
An idea is not responsible for the people who believe in it.
Ask Suen for some chocolate-covered raisins.
Ask yourself: What are you doing here today?
Avert misunderstanding by calm, poise, and balance.
Be affectionate to one who adores you.
Be self-reliant and your success is assured.
Be sure to get your four basic food groups: Salt, Grease, Starch, and Preservatives (alcohol is a preservative...).
Beat your boss today!
Beauty and harmony are as necessary to you as the very breath of life.
Beauty seldom recommends one woman to another.
Beep!
Behind every argument is someone's ignorance.
Better to use medicines at the outset than at the last moment.
Beware of friends who are false and deceitful.
Beware of looking upward when the birds migrate south.
Big deal.
By failing to prepare, you are preparing to fail.
By following the good, you learn to be good.
Confucius say: Who cares?
Confucius say: Who knows?
Conversation enriches the understanding, but solitude is the school of genius.
Courage is your greatest present need.
Creditors have much better memories than debtors.
Cryptic messages are.
Danger is our business.
Deprive a mirror of its silver and even the Czar won't see his face.
Despair is our business.
Did you walk to school, or did you bring a lunch?
Domestic happiness and faithful friends, not necessarily in that order.
Do not clog intellect's sluices with knowledge of questionable uses.
Don't EVER ask Cliff Gardner for a straight answer.
Don't be overly suspicious where it's not warranted.
Don't get yourself involved with situations that can't bear inspection.
Don't think about pink elephants.
Don't worry; this project won't go on forever. Or will it?
Do you feel lucky today, punk?
Draw your salary before spending it.
Economy makes men independent.
Enjoy your life; be pleasant and gay, like the birds in May.
Eschew obfuscation microchronologically.
Even a hawk is an eagle among crows.
Even the boldest zebra fears the hungry lion.
Even the smallest candle burns brighter in the dark.
Every purchase has its price.
Everyone complains of his memory, no one of his judgment.
Everything bows to success, even grammar.
Executive ability is prominent in your makeup.
Expect a letter from a friend who will ask a favor of you.
Face the day with the proper balance of hope and cynicism.
Faith goes out through the window when beauty comes in at the door.
Far duller than a serpent's tooth it is to spend a quiet youth.
For a good time, call 767-2676.
For people who like that kind of book, that is the kind of book they like.
From listening comes wisdom and from speaking repentance.
Generosity and perfection are your everlasting goals, not necessarily in that order.
Genius is the foreperception of idiocy and the exercise of wisdom to avoid it.
Give blood - play volleyball.
Go ahead - make my day.
God gives us relatives; thank God we can choose our friends.
Good health will be yours for a long time.
Good news from afar can bring you a welcome visitor.
Happiness is just an illusion filled with sadness and confusion.
Happiness is not just a marble toilet with gold handles.
He is no lawyer who cannot take two sides.
He is truly wise who gains wisdom from another's mishap.
He loves you as much as he can, but he cannot love you very much (are you male or female?).
He thinks he could easily win your heart.
He walks as if balancing his family tree on his nose.
He was so narrow-minded he could see through a keyhole with two eyes.
He who falls in love with himself will have no rivals.
He who has a shady past knows that nice guys finish last.
He who has imagination without learning has wings but no feet.
He who invents adages for others to peruse takes a rowboat when going on cruise.
He who is good for making excuses is seldom good for anything else.
Help! I'm trapped inside the computer!
Here comes the orator, with his flood of words and his drop of reason.
His heart was yours from the first moment that you met.
His life was formal; his actions seemed ruled with a ruler.
History books which contain no lies are extremely dull.
How sharper than a hound's tooth it is to have a thankless serpent.
How you look depends on where you go.
I despise the pleasure of pleasing people whom I despise.
I fear explanations explanatory of things explained.
I hate to itch, and yet scratching is one of nature's sweet pleasures, and so handy.
I like work; it fascinates me; I can sit and look at it for hours.
I must have slipped a disk - my pack hurts.
I never fail to convice an audience that the best thing to do is go away.
I've given up reading books; I find it takes my mind off myself.
If anything can go wrong, it will.
If anything can't go wrong, it will.
If it does not matter, it does not matter.
If it pours before seven, it has rained by eleven.
If it's Thursday, you will sing all the way to the bank. If it isn't, you will stay poor.
If some people didn't tell you, you'd never know they'd been away on vacation.
If you always postpone pleasure you will never have it.
If you continually give you will continually have.
If you make a mistake you right it immediately to the best of your ability.
If you make people think they're thinking, they love you; but if you really make them think they hate you.
If you suspect a man, don't employ him.
If you wish to succeed, consult three old people.
If you wish, You will have an opportunity.
If your name is Lisa Parker, don't panic.
If you would keep a secret from an enemy, tell it not to a friend.
Indolence is a wonderful way to ensure yourself free time.
Insignificance is a wonderful way to ensure yourself a little privacy.
It is a poor judge who cannot award a prize.
It is better to wear out than to rust out.
It is easier to run down a hill than up one.
It is far better to be deceived than to be undeceived by those we love.
It is Fortune, not wisdom, that rules man's life.
It is impossible to enjoy idling thoroughly unless one has plenty of work to do.
It is the wise bird who builds his nest in a tree.
It seems like the less a statesman amounts to, the more he loves the flag.
It takes both a weapon, and two people, to commit a murder.
It was a book to kill time for those who liked it better dead.
It's a poor workman who blames his tools.
It's clever, but is it art?
It's later than you think, the joint Russian-American space mission has already begun.
It's not reality that's important, but how you perceive things.
It's sweet to be remembered, but it's often cheaper to be forgotten.
Lawrence Radiation Laboratory keeps all its data in an old gray trunk.
Lend money to a bad debtor and he will hate you.
Let a fool hold his tongue and he will pass for a sage.
Let he who takes the plunge remember to return it by Tuesday.
Let not the sands of time get in your lunch.
Let's just be friends and make no special effort ever to see each other again.
Life is like a cesspool: all the really big chunks go to the top.
Life is like a new automobile; with proper maintenance, it will work well for a long time.
Life is like an onion: you peel off layer after layer, then you find there is nothing in it.
Life is to you a dashing and bold adventure.
Like winter snow on summer lawn, time past is time gone.
Live dangerously; ask for a raise.
Lonely is a man without love.
Lonely men seek companionship. Lonely women sit at home and wait. They never meet.
Love and scandal are the best sweeteners of tea.
Love is in the offing. Just for whom is another matter.
Love is like baseball: fair weather fans abound.
Love the sea? I dote upon it - from the beach.
Make a wish - it might come true.
Man and wife make one fool.
Man's horizons are bounded by his vision.
Many a family tree needs trimming.
Many changes of mind and mood; do not hesitate too long.
Many pages make a thick book, except for pocket Bibles, which are on very very thin paper.
Marriage is the only adventure open to the cowardly. -- VOLTAIRE
Massachusetts has the best politicians money can buy.
Matrimony is the root of all evil.
May Carnac the Magnificent invade your space.
Men seldom show dimples to girls who have pimples.
Might as well be frank, monsieur. It would take a miracle to get you out of Casablanca.
Misery loves company, but company does not reciprocate.
Mistakes are oft the steppingstones to failure.
Money cannot buy love, nor even friendship.
Money may buy friendship but money cannot buy love.
Money will say more in one moment than the most eloquent lover can in years.
Murphy was an optimist.
My cup hath runneth'd over with love.
My interest is in the future because I am going to spend the rest of my life there.
Never call a man a fool; borrow from him.
Never drink from your finger bowl - it contains only water.
Never say you know a man until you have divided an inheritance with him.
Nice guys get sick.
No doubt Jack the Ripper excused himself on the grounds that it was human nature.
No one can feel as helpless as the owner of a sick goldfish.
Nobody can be as agreeable as an uninvited guest.
Now and then an innocent man is sent to the legislature.
Numbers, if tortured enough, will confess to anything.
Of all forms of caution, caution in love is the most fatal.
Often statistics are used as a drunken man uses lampposts - for support rather than illumination.
Old men are fond of giving good advice to console themselves for their inability to give good examples.
One day you will ask yourself honestly whether it all makes any difference.
One family builds a wall, two families enjoy it.
One man tells a falsehood, a hundred repeat it as true.
Only someone with nothing to be sorry for smiles back at the rear of an elephant.
Ours is a world where people don't know what they want and are willing to go through hell to get it.
People who have no faults are terrible; there is no way of taking advantage of them.
People who take cat naps don't usually sleep in a cat's cradle.
People will buy anything that's one to a customer.
Pi is 3.14159265358979323846264338327950288419716939937510, more or less.
Preserve the old, but know the new.
Promptness is its own reward, if one lives by the clock instead of the sword.
Prosperity and poverty are states of being for you. So are North Dakota and West Virginia.
Publishing a volume of verse is like dropping a rose petal down the Grand Canyon and waiting for the echo.
Put not your trust in money, but put your money in trust.
Put your brain in gear before starting your mouth.
Put your trust in those who are worthy.
Quit work and play for once.
Raising pet electric eels is gaining a lot of current popularity.
Recent investments will yield a slight profit.
Reputation:  what others are not thinking about you.
Satire does not look pretty upon a tombstone.
She's learned to say things with her eyes that others waste time putting into words.
Show your affection, which will probably meet with pleasant response.
Sin has many tools, but a lie is the handle which fits them all.
Some men are discovered; others are found out.
Some people are outstanding in math, others are outstanding in science, and others are out standing in the rain.
Some rise by sin and some by virtue fall.
Someone is speaking well of you.
Someone is unenthusiastic about your work.
Someone whom you reject today will reject you tomorrow.
Sometimes you've almost got ends to meet, and someone moves the ends.
Sorry - this fortune cookie is defective.
Standing on head makes smile of frown, but rest of face also upside down. 
Stop searching forever. Happiness is just next to you.
Stop searching forever. Happiness is unattainable.
Swap read error. You lose your mind.
System is down; please log out.
Take care of the luxuries and the necessities will take care of themselves.
That must be wonderful!  I don't understand it at all.
The 1980 census population of Mountain View, California (60,943) is a prime number.
The answer is no.
The answer is yes.
The attacker must vanquish; the defender need only survive.
The best prophet of the future is the past.
The best way to keep your friends is not to give them away.
The days just prior to marriage are like a snappy preface to a tedious book.
The end of the matter is that there isn't any more.
The final answer is maybe.
The first thing I do in the morning is brush my teeth and sharpen my tongue.
The gent who wakes up and finds himself a success hasn't been asleep.
The hardest thing is to disguise your feelings when you put a lot of relatives on the train for home.
The heart is wiser than the intellect.
The light of a hundred stars does not equal the light of the moon.
The luck that is ordained for you will be coveted by others.
The minute a man is convinced that he is interesting, he isn't.
The only rose without thorns is friendship.
The person of your dreams is a myth.
The person you rejected yesterday could make you happy, if you say yes.
The plural of spouse is spice.
The rich get rich, and the poor get poorer.
The star of riches is shining upon you.
The time is right to make new friends.
The universe is laughing behind your back.
The weed of crime bears bitter fruit.
The wise shepherd never trusts his flock to a smiling wolf.
The world is an spherical pile of dirt eight thousand miles in diameter.
The world is flat.
There are always options. Unfortunately, death is all too frequently the other one.
There are few people more often in the wrong than those who cannot endure to be thought so.
There are many people today who literally do not have a close personal friend.
There are more old drunkards than old doctors.
There are more ways of killing a cat than choking her with cream.
There are three things I have always loved and never understood: - art, music, and women.
There is always someone worse off than yourself.
There is no fear in love; but perfect love casteth out fear.
There will be big changes for you but you will be happy.
There's one fool at least in every married couple.
There's so much to say but your eyes keep interrupting me.
Think twice before speaking. But don't say "think think click click".
The computer is up!
This file will self-destruct in five minutes.
To criticize the incompetent is easy; it is more difficult to criticize the competent.
To do is to be - Nietzsche  To be is to do - Sartre  Do be do be do - Sinatra
To give happiness is to deserve happiness.
To keep your friends treat them kindly; to kill them, treat them often.
To laugh at men of sense is the privilege of fools.
To refuse praise is to seek praise twice.
To save a single life is better than to build a seven story pagoda. Don't get married.
True happiness will be found only in true love.
Try to divide your time evenly to keep others happy.
Try to value useful qualities in one who loves you.
Warning: The Surgeon General has determined that working is hazardous to your health.
Watch out for the old mortar in the rocks in the fourteenth hole trick.
We prefer to speak evil of ourselves than not speak of ourselves at all.
We promise according to our hopes, and perform according to our fears.
We read to say that we have read.
Welcome to Chernobyl, the city of light.
Welcome to Space Telescope - where death is a way of life.
What for?
What is the difference between a Vitamin and a Hormone? You can't make a Vitamin.
What makes us so bitter against people who outwit us is that they think themselves cleverer than we are.
What no spouse of a writer can ever understand is that he is working when he's staring out the window.
What orators lack in depth they make up in length.
What passes for woman's intuition is often nothing more than man's transparency.
What this country needs is a dime that will buy a good five-cent bagel.
When God endowed human beings with brains, He did not intend to guarantee them.
When the wind is great, bow before it; when the wind is heavy, yield to it.
When you are used to never being alone, you may consider yourself Americanized.
When you go out to buy, don't show your silver.
Whenever I feel like exercise, I lie down until the feeling passes.
Where there's a will, there's an inheritance tax.
Where there's a will, there's death and taxes.
Who cares?
Why?
Why not?
With clothes the new are best, with friends the old are best.
Words are the voice of the heart.
Words must be weighed, not counted.
You are a bundle of energy always on the go.
You are always busy.
You are capable of planning your future.
You are dishonest, but never to the point of hurting a friend.
You are farsighted, a good planner, an ardent lover, and a faithful friend.
You are going to have a new love affair.
You are heading for a land of sunshine.
You are magnetic in your bearing.
You are scrupulously honest, frank, and straightforward.
You are secretive in your dealings but never to the extent of trickery.
You are tricky, but never to the point of dishonesty.
You can do very well in speculation where land is concerned.
You cannot kill time without injuring eternity.
You display the wonderful traits of charm and courtesy.
You enjoy the company of other people.
You have a deep appreciation of the arts and music.
You have a reputation for being thoroughly reliable and trustworthy.
You have a strong appeal for members of the opposite sex.
You have a strong appeal for members of the opposite sex.
You have a strong desire for a home and your family interests come first.
You have a truly strong individuality.
You have a will that can be influenced by all with whom you come in contact.
You have an ability to sense and know higher truth.
You have an ambitious nature and may make a name for yourself.
You have an unusual equipment for success.  Be sure to use it properly.
You have an unusual understanding of the problems of human relationship.
You have been selected for a secret mission.
You have had a long-term stimulation relative to business.
You have literary talent that you should take pains to develop.
You have many friends and very few enemies.
You have taken yourself too seriously.
You have the power to influence all with whom you come in contact.
You haven't taken yourself seriously enough.
You like to form new friendships and make new acquaintances.
You love peace.
You love your home and want it to be beautiful.
You love your home and want it to be beautiful.
You need not worry about your future.
You never hesitate to tackle the most difficult problems.
You plan things that you do not even use because of your extreme caution.
You recoil from the crude; you tend naturally toward the exquisite.
You seek to shield those you love and you like the role of the provider.
You shall be rewarded for a dastardly deed.
You will always have good luck in your personal affairs.
You will attract cultured and artistic people to your home.
You will be aided greatly by a person whom you thought to be unimportant.
You will be awarded a medal for disregarding safety in saving someone.
You will be awarded some great honor.
You will be called upon to help a friend in trouble.
You will be given a post of trust and responsibility.
You will be honored for contributing your time and skill to a worthy cause.
You will be married within a year.
You will be promoted beyond your level of competence.
You will be recognized and honored as a community leader.
You will be singled out for promotion in your work.
You will be successful in love.
You will be surprised by a loud noise.
You will be surrounded by luxury.
You will care about your work, thus becoming unique in your field.
You will engage in a profitable business activity.
You will fervently question just why you came to work today.
You will gain money by a speculation or lottery.
You will gznchfjdr kksjo2' (*)lxbs/314? dd9i3=]a[dfm} dd 9ea ;[d`~ adf lk!
You will have good luck and overcome many hardships.
You will have long and healthy life.
You will hear good news from one you thought unfriendly to you.
You will inherit some money or a small piece of land.
You will meet a fish without a bicycle.
You will meet an important person who will help you advance professionally.
You will never know hunger.
You will overcome the attacks of jealous associates.
You will receive a legacy which will place you above want.
You will soon meet a person who will play an important role in your life.
You will step on the soil of many countries.
You will win success in whatever calling you adopt.
Your aims are high, and you are capable of much.
Your business associates will take you to lunch - someday.
Your business will assume vast proportions.
Your depth of comprehension may tend to make you lax in worldly ways.
Your domestic life may be harmonious.
Your happiness is intertwined with your outlook on life.
Your heart is pure, and your mind clear, and your soul devout.
Your love life will be happy and harmonious.
Your lover will never wish to leave you.
Your mind understands what you have been taught; your heart, what is true.
Your mode of life will be changed for the better because of new developments.
Your nature demands love and your happiness depends on it.
Your own qualities will help prevent your advancement in the world.
Your present plans will be successful.
Your reasoning powers are good, and you are a fairly good planner.
Your society will be sought by people of taste and refinement.
Your talents will be recognized and suitably rewarded.
Your temporary financial embarrassment will be relieved in a surprising manner.
Youth had been a habit of hers so long that she could not part with it.
